= 2005-10-.. New FFII Portal =
->
[ [:FfiiprojPriorEn: Priorities]
| [:FfiiPortalEn: Portal 2004]
]
----

''For quite a while there has been the portal site for the FFII, www.ffii.org, has been in a poor state, and various alternatives have been proposed.''

== Candidates ==

 * [http://en.ffii.org/ en.ffii.org] -- candidate since 2005-10
 * [http://eu.ffii.org/ EU] -- candidate in 2004
 * [http://plone.ffii.org Plone] -- candidate in 2003

== Synopsis of the latest candidate ==

 * one website for each language, naming similar to wikipedia 
   * may disrupt existing naming and metadata system
   * wiki-only model practised at [http://www.ffii.cz/ ffii.cz], contrasting with economic-majority.com, nosoftwarepatents.com, europarl.ffii.org etc
 * based on !MoinMoin wiki 

== Presentation of en.ffii.org project by aptiko ==

aptiko wrote in 2005-10:

=== Overview ===

You can see the proposed web site at http://en.ffii.org/, which is the
result of several months of careful work.  You may remember the work
I'd done in May, in which I had created a new system for static pages,
together with conversion utilities that could convert the existing
sites.  I have abandoned that, for the following reasons:

First, the existing web pages are so messed up and chaotic that
automatically converting them is not enough.  Just improving their
look, and not improving navigation, for example, is highly
insufficient.  A better generation system than MLHT, usable by more
than one people, would be important as infrastructure, but except for
that we really need to build a web site from scratch.

Second, despite the simplicity of my May system, people would be
reluctant to use it and much more confident to go wiki, which is a
much more familiar way of working.  In addition, although the May
system was usable by more than one people, it was not usable by many,
like a wiki.  Wiki automatically keeps the history, whereas May would
need manual history with RCS.

So the new web site is just a wiki.  It has a custom skin that I have
made.  However, the power of that new web site does not lie in the
visual design, which can easily be changed, but in the logical design;
notably, in its navigation menu, which you will be pleased to find
that it is defined in a wiki page: http://en.ffii.org/navigation_menu;
and in the care of many little details that you are going to see when
you read on and when you browse.

Since the new web site is made from scratch and is going to be
manually expanded, the old web sites must be kept for reference.  We
keep swpat.ffii.org as is and we rename www.ffii.org to
oldwww.ffii.org or old.ffii.org, whatever we like (this is
configurable in the new web site, where, in order to refer to a page
in old swpat, you don't type http://swpat.ffii.org/whatever but
ffii:swpat:whatever instead; in order to refer to the old web site,
you type ffii:oldwww:whatever; in order to refer to the listinfo page
of the "whatever" mailing list, you type ffii:listinfo:whatever).

The system is installed on gumbo, a 1&1 machine leased by FFII, AMD
2.2 GHz with 2 GB RAM and 150 GB disk space.  The moin configuration
and data files are being backed up daily on apunkt.  Jeroen said he's
going to setup a more complete backup solution in a week or so, but
the temporary backup setup I've made on apunkt is adequate and safe.

=== Multilinguality ===

The current new web site runs at http://en.ffii.org/. Obviously the
german site can be at http://de.ffii.org/ (or http://www.ffii.de/),
and so on. The wiki engine is already configured to host many wikis (a
wiki farm, as it is called) on the server, each for a different
language. http://www.ffii.org/ shall be used as an alias to
http://en.ffii.org/, but if, in the future, we have decent websites in
more languages, it can be used as a portal for the specific language
sites (much like http://www.wikipedia.org/).  http://de.ffii.org/ and
http://el.ffii.org/ have been created as examples, the el one even
having a Greek navigation menu as an example, but are otherwise empty.

In the future it will also be possible to indicate to the system which
e.g. german page is equivalent to each english, french, and so on
page, and have alternative language links in each article, much like
wikipedia. This is not possible yet because !MoinMoin does not provide
this functionality. I have performed a fair amount of research on
that, which has resulted in the article "Creating multilingual wikis
and wiki engines",
http://moinmoin.wikiwikiweb.de/Creating_multilingual_wikis_and_wiki_engines.
It remains to make the implementation, which I am willing to do,
subject to available time and mood, and tasks that can be judged as
more important, namely press work and secrecy policy (see below).

Until that functionality is developed, not having alternative language
links is a problem we can certainly live with, like thousands of other
multilingual websites.


=== Security system ===

The current security system is somewhat inflexible, as it is quickly
hacked by Heather Stern to use aktiv.  This is what it currently does:

 1. User accounts are taken from aktiv.
 1. All aktiv users are allowed to view and edit unprotected pages.
 1. Unsubscribed users can only view, not edit, pages.
 1. For individual pages, admins can specify whether they want the page to be readable by everyone, or by all aktiv users, or only by admins.
 1. Whether a user is admin or not is not specified in aktiv, but in the moinmoin configuration file, which can be changed by the moinmoin administrator (unix users belonging to the moinmoin group).

=== Other features ===

Swpatcnino (renamed to "Software patent news") is ready and uses a
rewritten RSS generation system, which has been integrated into moin
as a custom action; there's thus no cronjob involved, but dynamic rss
generation upon request.  RSS is also available for RecentChanges (a
!MoinMoin feature).

Visiting a nonexistent page, except for offering to create it,
actually returns a 404 and even provides a link to the old web site,
in case that is where the visitor intended to go.

URLs whose hostname ends in 'ffii.org' are considered internal and are
thus displayed without the earth icon (the default moin behaviour is
that only intra-wiki links are internal).

Visit FFII-specific wiki help (accessible from the menu after you
login, or directly at http://en.ffii.org/FFII-specific_wiki_help) for
more information.

=== Extensibility ===

The custom code has been written by Heather Stern and me.  Whenever it
has been possible, extensions have been written using !MoinMoin's
plugin system, so they integrate cleanly without changing the core
code.  Some changes, however, have necessarily been made in the core,
and they concern mainly Heather's aktiv code.  Our changes are cleanly
kept in code checked out from the repository, so upgrading to future
versions is a clean process where the checked out code is updated and
then conflicts are resolved.  Meanwhile, this need for aktiv
integration has spurred a reorganisation of that part of the code by
!MoinMoin leader Thomas Waldmann, which will make future !MoinMoin
versions use external authentication systems without needing to change
core code.
