# Community Patent undermines European Constitution {#community_patent_undermines_european_constitution}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

\--\> \[ [ComPat Consultation information
site](http://consultation.ffii.org/ "wikilink") \| [ Swpat
News](SwpatcninoEn "wikilink") \| [ National patent
laws](NatPatLawsEn "wikilink") \| [
Institutions](SwpatkamniEn "wikilink") \| [ Countries and software
patents](SwpatgugdeEn "wikilink") \| [ EPO
reform](EpoReformEn "wikilink") \| [ WIPO
Casablanca](WipoScp050216En "wikilink") \]

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Community patent aims at making patents cheaper and more easily
available throughout the European Community. This will lead to many more
patents. Patents may stimulate innovation, on the other hand patents are
exclusive rights that forbid independent rediscovery. Patents impede
competition, follow-up innovation (by others) and interoperability, lead
to high transaction costs and higher prices. Patents may be a good
economic policy instrument, but only in a controlled situation.
Unfortunately, the European patent system lacks checks and balances. The
European Patent Office makes money granting patents and there is no
independent appeal possible against its Technical Board of Appeal
decisions.

The Community patent does not solve these problems, in fact makes them
worse. The Community patent comes with accession of the European
Community to the European Patent Convention. This accession creates
fundamental problems.

-   the Community patent creates a Community software patent
-   undermines the European Community\'s constituting treaties, the
    European Parliament will be bypassed
-   creates separate legal systems
-   makes legal extortion profitable

The Community out-sources the granting of Community patents, giving an
unaccountable non-Community organisation carte blanche.

## The Community patent creates a Community software patent {#the_community_patent_creates_a_community_software_patent}

The EPC is interpreted by the EPOs Boards of Appeal which have over
time adapted their interpretation of the EPC so that [computer programs
and business methods are in fact
patentable](http://www.european-patent-office.org/legal/gui_lines/e/c_iv_2_3_6.htm).
The pervasive introduction of software into patent law is not a
technical legal decision but a policy change definitively outside the
competence of any court, requiring proper treatment as a policy change.

The software patents directive was an attempt to codify this case law,
it failed to gain political approval. After the almost unanimous
rejection of the software patents directive, the EPO went on granting
software patents. The problem is that the EPO is not a Community
organisation. The European Community can not stop the EPO.

The Community patent fails to bring the EPO under Community control.
Instead of taking measures, the EPO will be awarded the granting of
Community patents. The EPO will grant software patents, and likewise,
Community software patents. There will be no appeal possible against
EPOs Boards of Appeal decisions.

## Community law by a non-Community organisation {#community_law_by_a_non_community_organisation}

Under the Community patents proposal the European Community will accede
to the EPC which will become Community law. As a result subsequent
changes of the EPC will also be Community law. The EPC can not only be
changed by a diplomatic conference, the European Patent Organisations
Administrative Council can change the Implementing Regulations, as
well as Parts II to VIII and Part X of the European Patent Convention,
thereby taking on the role of legislator.

The constituting treaties of the European Community, with its precise
rules on making Community laws, will be bypassed. The European
Parliament will be bypassed. We will have Community law without
democratic control. Accession to the EPC undermines the European
Communitys constituting treaties.

[EU accession to the EPC needs assent from
EP](http://wiki.ffii.org/EuAccEpcEn "wikilink")

## Community titles created by an unaccountable non-Community organisation {#community_titles_created_by_an_unaccountable_non_community_organisation}

Community patents will be Community titles (Council text, consideration
7, page 7), issued by a non-Community organisation. **There will be no
appeal possible** against granting these Community titles before a
Community court (Commission proposal 2.4.5.2 page 15), (or any other
independent court). The Community will have no influence at all on
granting these Community titles. From a Community perspective, these
titles are unaccountable.

These Community titles will be granted by the European Patent
Organisation which as we have shown is essentially a state among the
states, with its own legislature, bureaucracy and courts that are
neither independent nor democratically accountable. Further still the
EPO generates income granting patents. Out-sourcing the granting of
patents in this manner means the Community loses the vital possiblity to
create checks and balances.

The Community out-sources the granting of Community titles, giving an
unaccountable non-Community organisation carte blanche.

## No appeal against EPO decisions at an independent court {#no_appeal_against_epo_decisions_at_an_independent_court}

It will not be possible to appeal against EPO decisions at an
independent court, a violation of the European Convention on Human
Rights. The trias politica is the basis of our constitutional states, a
principle which unfortunately has not reached the European patent
system. Moreover the [ proposed EPO reform is
insufficient](EpoReformEn "wikilink") for that matter.

## Separate legal systems, different interpretations {#separate_legal_systems_different_interpretations}

The Community Patent proposal as it stands makes the EPO\'s Board of
Appeal the highest authority on the granting practice. The Community
Patent Court *European Court of Justice will be the highest court in
infringement* invalidity cases. As a result two separate legal systems
are created, allowing different interpretations of the European Patent
Convention.

If you give one organisation the right to grant patents, and another the
right to invalidate them, and there is no hierarchy, the result is
arguably pure sophistry. You make money and then say: sorry, the title
we sold you is worthless.

Of course the title can turn out worthless because prior art is found,
and while that is part of the game particularly with reference to
software patents, different interpretations of the EPC should not be
made possible by a failing set up.

## Community patent makes legal extortion profitable {#community_patent_makes_legal_extortion_profitable}

EPO\'s practice will be the community patent\'s basis, including its
objected, undemocratic and unaccountable practice of granting software
patents. This uncontrolled case law, together with \'cheaper\' and
\'easier\' application and long retroactive period is a pernicious
combination.

For the Netherlands and more countries, the Community Patent will
introduce **retroactive liability**. The Community Patent will make it
profitable to apply for broad, vague and trivial patents, and then send
out notices after some years. Since going to court will often be too
expensive, !SMEs will have to pay. The result: the Community Patent will
make legal extortion profitable. If Europe is to steer clear of the
mistakes of the US and develop its burgeoning knowledge economy and
!SMEs this is a turning point we have to steer clear of.

(Belgium already has retroactive liability, but for a shorter period.
The retroactive period will be longer than that in the US. It is ironic
that abuse and extortion have led to a call for reform in the US, while
Europe is in danger of going much too far on this point.)

See [Vrijschrift letter on Community
Patent](http://wiki.ffii.org/LtrVrijschriftComPat050915En "wikilink")

## Compat proposal needs to be changed {#compat_proposal_needs_to_be_changed}

The present text has fundamental flaws.

At the moment the community patent is stuck on the language problem,
providing time to adapt the proposal. Since unanimity is needed in the
European Council, any EU country can exact changes by rejecting the
present text.

## Solution

In order not to undermine the Constitution, and to prevent Community law
written by a non-Community organisation, the EU Community must take over
the European Patent Organisation\'s legislative role.

In order to prevent a Community software patent, the case law on
software patents is excluded on accession to the European Patent
Convention. A Community law on software patents is made before accession
to the EPC.

In order to prevent Community titles by a non-Community organisation, to
prevent out-sourcing of patent policy, the European Patent Office is
made a Community Agency.

In order to prevent separate legal systems with its own interpretations
of the European Patent Convention, the European Court of Justice is made
the highest court on all patent cases, granting, infringement and
invalidity of Community patents.

In order to prevent making legal extortion profitable, there will be no
retroactive liability.

A separate European Community innovation office should coordinate
various innovation policy measures, patent policy is just one of the
many instruments (and perhaps not the best one) to stimulate innovation.

## Procedure

This directive is under the [Consultation
procedure](http://europa.eu.int/eur-lex/accessible/en/about/abc/abc_21.html "wikilink").
Under this process the European Parliament *can only advise*, while on
the other hand unanimity is needed in the Council. In 2004 The Council
did not reach a common position because it was stuck on the language
problem. After it reaches a common position it will go back to the
European Parliament for reconsultation, since the text will have changed
considerably. (One commentator, the Dutch state secretary Karien van
Gennip, said she doesn\'t expect any progress before the French
elections (2007)).

## Documents

[Proposal
Commission](http://europa.eu.int/eur-lex/lex/LexUriServ/site/en/com/2000/com2000_0412en01.pdf "wikilink")

[European Parliament,
juri](http://www2.europarl.eu.int/omk/sipade2?PUBREF=-//EP//TEXT+REPORT+A5-2002-0059+0+NOT+XML+V0//EN "wikilink")

[European Parliament,
plenary](http://www2.europarl.eu.int/omk/sipade2?PUBREF=-//EP//TEXT+TA+P5-TA-2002-0163+0+DOC+XML+V0//EN&L=EN&LEVEL=3&NAV=S&LSTDOC=Y "wikilink")

(In the links above, you can change \"en\" once or twice with your
national code, like \"de\" or \"fr\" to get the translation.)

[Latest Council
version](http://register.consilium.eu.int/pdf/en/04/st07/st07119.en04.pdf "wikilink")

(Full text, there have been some discussions afterwards, check link
below for updates)

[Overview Council documents](http://tinyurl.com/db54l "wikilink")

[Community Patent Court
proposals](http://register.consilium.eu.int/servlet/driver?page=Result&#9001;=EN&ssf=DATE_DOCUMENT+DESC&fc=REGAISEN&srm=25&md=400&typ=Simple&cmsid=638&ff_TITRE=patent+court&ff_FT_TEXT=&ff_SOUS_COTE_MATIERE=&dd_DATE_REUNION= "wikilink")

[McCreevy answer to question of Tom Wise
(MEP)](http://wiki.ffii.org/LtrMcCreevy051223En "wikilink")

[Belgian analysis of Community patent effect on European
patents](http://wiki.ffii.org/CompatEffectEpatentsEn "wikilink")

[Print version FFII text on accession to the
EPC](http://www.ffii.org/~ante/compat/FFII.org_EC-accession-EPC.pdf "wikilink")

------------------------------------------------------------------------

An other attempt to harmonize European patent law: the [European Patent
Litigation
Agreement](http://www.european-patent-office.org/epo/epla/ "wikilink")

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Bolkestein on [ComPat](ComPat "wikilink") in 2001:
<http://europa.eu.int/rapid/pressReleasesAction.do?reference=SPEECH/01/597&format=HTML&aged=1&language=EN&guiLanguage=en>

1.  1.  \* European Community law will be created by the European Patent
        Organisation, a non-Community organisation.
    2.  \* the European Patent Organisation is a state among the states,
        and its fruits will be European Community law.
