# 2004-06-13 EU Election Results for Greece {#eu_election_results_for_greece}

\--\> \[ [ EU-wide](ElectResu0406En "wikilink") \| [ GR
Parties](ElectGrPart0405En "wikilink") \| [ GR &
Swpat](SwpatgrEn "wikilink") \]

------------------------------------------------------------------------

-   <http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/shared/bsp/hi/vote2004/euro/html/10.stm>
-   <http://www.elections2004.eu.int/ep-election/sites/en/results1306/countries/gr/results/names.html>

Results show a high polarisation in voters, most of whom have voted for
representatives of the party of the incumbent government. Although
member of the PPE (which followed its extremely pro-patent shadow
rapporteur [ Wuermeling](SwpatjwuermelingEn "wikilink")), the
governmental party, Nea Dimokratia, has voted against software patents
in september 2003, following the lead of the group around [
Kauppi](PiiaNooraKauppiEn "wikilink") (which included EPP groups from
Finnland, Austria, Italy and other countries). As in other countries and
parties, the minister sitting above the patent office did not oppose the
pro-patent decision taken at the council of ministers. The previously
ruling socialist party had been voting consistently pro-patent and
election had been quite recent, so the ministrial decision might have
been a result of being insufficiently prepared for such issues [merely
continuing the policies of the previous government or passively
following the guidance of the civil servants from the patent office who
represent greece in the council](and "wikilink").

The communist party, clearly anti-software-patent, retained its seats,
but some other leftwing parties lost seats. All in all, the situation
did not change much in Greece.
