1.  1.  -\*- dok: [EppHearing050602](EppHearing050602 "wikilink"); lang:
        en; coding: iso-8859-1; mode: fundamental; -\*-

# Hearing reveals hermetic discourse within german EPP group {#hearing_reveals_hermetic_discourse_within_german_epp_group}

-\> \[ [ deutsch](EppHearing050602De "wikilink") \] \[ [Heise
report](http://www.heise.de/newsticker/meldung/60212 "wikilink") \| [
notes](Epp050602En "wikilink") \| [
Lehne](KlausHeinerLehneEn "wikilink") \| [
Kauppi](PiiaNooraKauppiEn "wikilink") \| [ FFII/EPP
Conference](Konf050601En "wikilink") \| [ FFII/EPP discussion
paper](FfiiEpp0506En "wikilink") \| [ News](SwpatcninoEn "wikilink") \]

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*2nd June 2005 \-- The European People\'s Party (EPP) organised a
hearning in the European Parliament in connection with the expert
conference organised by parts of EPP together with FFII and CCIA. The
session was dominated by German players, and the distance between the
German EPP representatives and the Finnish shadow rapporteur Piia-Noora
Kauppi, who attempted to reconcile different positions, was conspicuous.
Efforts at objective discussion failed, as many of the invited experts
limited themselves to eloquently reiterating long-refuted belief
statements. Judging from the final statement by the German EPP
coordinator Klaus-Heiner Lehne, these statements must have left a strong
impression.*

The discussion was chaired by Prof. Dr. Hans-Peter Mayer MEP (EPP
Germany, Vechta). He successfully kept the discussion within the
timelines. The invited experts were independent patent attorneys, the
European Patent Office, patent attorneys from Nokia, Siemens and Scania,
representatives of the German Internet economy, a European SME
organisation, Microsoft lobbyist Hugo Lueders, the American scientist
Brian Kahin and a few others. From the audience numerous enterpreneurs
and scientists raised questions. !MEPs kept a low profile, limiting
themselves to \"soft ball\" type questions, such as those thrown by [
Wuermeling](SwpatjwuermelingEn "wikilink") to [
Lehne](KlausHeinerLehneEn "wikilink"). The audience focussed on the
contradictions which they found in the arguments of the invited experts,
and thereby further broadened the space that was already overwhelmingly
given to the proponents of patentability, thus giving the final speaker
Lehne even more reasons to portray the under-represented side of patent
critics as a sect of nay-sayers.

## Important subjects of Disucssion {#important_subjects_of_disucssion}

see [ german version](EppHearing050602De "wikilink") (or translate!)

## Lehne\'s Concluding Speech (extracts): {#lehnes_concluding_speech_extracts}

I would like to add and thereby complement what has been partially
discussed here, there is, I believe, within EPP, I believe, quite a huge
difference, as far as the position of EPP-ED is concerned, to the Rocard
position: the Rocard amendments aim, and I think this is also true for
the compromise amendments, for putting the patent system as a whole in
question. That is at least my impression. (intervention from the
audience: \"nonsense!\") It is the impression which I have, you may
believe it to be nonsense, but this impression is shared by many others,
and, in any case, that is not our position. That has never been our
position, and our position is that basically it has proven its value,
and, when we speak here about the Lisbon process, about a
knowledged-based economy, that patents must be an essential element of
such a knowledge-minded economy and we can under no circumstances do
without them.

Concerning the panels on the whole, a few remarks, a few remarks, of
which I believe that they are very valuable for myself as insights: the
first impression that I take back home is that the problems are not what
they have been described to be in some of the position papers.

I have for instance today not heard a **single** argument as to why the
content of the Common Position should lead to the problems that were
evoked in the criticism:

The Common Position says in full clarity: **software, pure software is
not patentable.** - that\'s written there in **full** clarity and
expliciteness. I have, at least today in this debate, not been able to
see why, given this background, the Common Position is said to be a
problem. **I** have not been able to see it.

\...

And concerning the position taken by the representative of [
UEAPME](UeapmeEn "wikilink"), judging from many talks which I have
conducted in my region, I come from cDÃ¼sseldorf and Bergisches Land, in
that area we have the backbone of the german machine construction
industry and the automobile suppliers, and if I have heard **THAT** as a
position of the medium-size enterprises here, then I can only say that
the medium-size enterprises in my home region would not have agreed with
that **at all**, and would not have felt represented by that position.
They without any doubt see the matters differently.

\...

When sometimes - I had that impression already during the First Reading
that I was not meeting lobby representatives but people from a sect. I
may be allowed to say that plainly and clearly, even if not everyone
here likes to hear it, let me say it openly and clearly, a **bit more
objectivity** should be due here, you should not always insinuate that
the other person is evil-willing or has ulterior motives.

In connection with objectivity, one **more** remark: what I wanted to
specially criticise is that the participating parties, some more, some
less, see this whole aspect from their own egoistic perspective \-- OK,
that may be normal for lobby representatives, because those are supposed
to represent only the specific interests of their area. On the other
hand side it is not necessarily helpful for us.

When for instance from the side of the Open Source the problems of
industry are not at all taken into account and no **possible solutions
are offered**, then that is not particularly helpful for the positions
that are being argued for there.
