1.  1.  -\*- dok: [InAmend0503](InAmend0503 "wikilink"); lang: en;
        coding: iso-8859-1; mode: fundamental; -\*-

# Amendment proposals for Indian Software Patent Law {#amendment_proposals_for_indian_software_patent_law}

-\> \[ [ India](SwpatinEn "wikilink") \| [ Nath
Ordinance](Nath0412En "wikilink") \| [
[TRIPs](TRIPs "wikilink")](SwpattripsEn "wikilink") \| [ Patent
News](SwpatcninoEn "wikilink") \]

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Here we collect amendment proposals that could be used to repair the
software patent legalisation provisions in the Nath ordinance of
December 2004.*

## Legislative Proposals {#legislative_proposals}

### Amendments

#### current version of patent act {#current_version_of_patent_act}

a mathematical method or a business method or a computer programme per
se or algorithmsÂ².

#### proposed form {#proposed_form}

a mathematical method or a business method or a computer program or an
algorithm, alone or in combination with conventional data-processing
equipment.

#### justification

It is understood without saying that inventions in applied natural
science (technical inventinos) are patentable regardless of whether they
involve the use of a computer program. The expression \"per se\" is
redundant. Redundant expressions lead to confusion. In this case, the
phrase \"per se\" has been interpreted in ways which make the exclusion
pertain only to imaginary abstract objects, thus rendering the provision
meaningless. The law should make it clear that the addition of
conventional equipment to a software solution does not turn that
solution into an invention.

#### current version of Nath ordinance {#current_version_of_nath_ordinance}

a computer programme per se other than its technical application to
industry or a combination with hardware; a mathematical method or a
business method or algorithms.

#### proposed form {#proposed_form_1}

a computer programme, a web application, an algorithm, a mathematical
method or a business method, alone or in combination with conventional
data-processing equipment.

#### justification {#justification_1}

Computer programs always imply an application and a combination with
computing hardware. The above clause renders the exclusion of computer
programs meaningless.

### Proposals for Implementation of [TRIPs](TRIPs "wikilink") {#proposals_for_implementation_of_trips}

#### Proposed New Provisions {#proposed_new_provisions}

Data processing is not a *field of technology* in the sense of patent
law, and innovations in the field of data processing are not
*inventions* in the sense of patent law.

\"Industry\" in the sense of patent law is automated production of
material goods.

#### Justification {#justification_2}

The reason given for the new legislation is that Indian patent law needs
to be adapted to the !TRIPs treaty. While we disagree with the proposed
interpretation of Art 27 !TRIPs, the need to clarify the meaning of this
article for Indian law is undisputed.

The above provisions would help ensure that the Indian courts do not
need to interpret the open wordings of Art 27 [
[TRIPs](TRIPs "wikilink")](SwpattripsEn "wikilink") directly but have a
national law that applies them and clarifies their meaning.

They were approved by the European Parliament on 24th September 2003.

### Systematic cleanup {#systematic_cleanup}

Indian patent law says what are non patentable inventions.

a\) It is better to phrase them non-inventions. b) It is further useful
to define them as not belonging to a field of technology (TRIPS 27
clarification)
