1.  1.  -\*- dok: [OpenDocIda04](OpenDocIda04 "wikilink"); lang: en;
        coding: iso-8859-1; mode: fundamental; -\*-

# \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ Open Document Formats \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ {#open_document_formats_____________}

\--\> \[ [ Open Standards](OpenStandardsEn "wikilink") \| [
Standardisation](StandardEn "wikilink") \| [
Interoperability](InteropEn "wikilink") \]

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## 

## Web Resources: {#web_resources}

-   [AODC Conversion
    tool](http://opendocument4all.com/content/view/20/37/ "wikilink")

##  {#section_1}

Bob Sutor, Vice President of Standards and Open Source for the IBM
Corporation, on topic:

-   <http://www-128.ibm.com/developerworks/blogs/dw_blog_comments.jspa?blog=384&entry=83074>

##  {#section_2}

## I. IDA documentation on the Promotion of Open Document Exchange Format {#i._ida_documentation_on_the_promotion_of_open_document_exchange_format}

##  {#section_3}

<http://europa.eu.int/ida/en/document/3439>

\"By decision of the European Parliament and Council, The IDA Programme
was set up in order to encourage information content interoperability
through the promotion of trans-European telematic networks between
Administrations, Institutions and Agencies.\"

(\*) = Reviewed and quoted in this text. Feel free to work on the
missing !

1\. (\*) Valoris report on Open Document Formats

2 (\*) Responses from Microsoft to the Valoris report- April 2004

3\. (\*) Responses from Sun to the Valoris report- April 2004

4\. ( ) Recommendations endorsed by the IDA Telematic Advisory Committe
(TAC) - May 2004

5\. (\*) Responses from Microsoft to the TAC recommendations

6\. (\*) Responses from SUN to the TAC recommendations - Sep. 2004

7\. (\*) Responses from IBM to the TAC recommendations - Nov. 2004

8\. ( ) Positions from other players

9\. ( ) IDA Work programmes

10\. ( ) The HAM work programme 2004 - PDF

11\. ( ) The HAM work programme 2003 - PDF

Markers: \-\--\> \<\-\-- surround quoted parts, each part included in
\"\", parts in original doc order. Within quotes, a heading \# marks a
custom insertion (comment).

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### II. The Valoris report {#ii._the_valoris_report}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

\-\--\> 1. (report)

\"After increasing pressure from users and EU Administrations, Microsoft
has announced on 17 Nov. 2003, the publication of the XML Reference
Schemas for its office suite. Except for some technical details, these
XML formats seem to be completely documented, and licence to use them is
granted freely. However, the licence includes some constraints, which
need to be examined carefully as they might be too binding and
incompatible with GPL software integration.
[OpenOffice](OpenOffice "wikilink").org (OOo) is both an office
applications suite and an XML based format.
[OpenOffice](OpenOffice "wikilink").org is a community-based project and
is based on the open-sourced code from an older version of
[StarOffice](StarOffice "wikilink") bought by Sun Microsystems from
German software company [StarDivision](StarDivision "wikilink"), founded
in 1991. In 2000, Sun released the source code of
[StarOffice](StarOffice "wikilink") software publicly through
[OpenOffice](OpenOffice "wikilink").org, thus initiating the world\'s
largest open source project. [OpenOffice](OpenOffice "wikilink") is
currently being standardised by Oasis. The chairman of the Oasis
technical committee in charge of [OpenOffice](OpenOffice "wikilink")
predicts that the standard will be voted in the first half of 2004. OOo
boasts a confirmed and growing user base estimated between 10 and 40
million users, mainly in governments and administrations. In its attempt
to standardize the [OpenOffice](OpenOffice "wikilink").org format, Sun
Microsystems is not backed up by other market players except for the
Open Source community.\"

\"Our view is that the corresponding formats, namely MS XML Reference
schemas and OOo will naturally follow the adoption of the major tools
behind them. Microsoft\'s XML lead and market dominance will remain for
the few years to come. On the other hand,
[OpenOffice](OpenOffice "wikilink") user base size is now such that it
is irreversible, and it constitutes a viable alternative to Microsoft.
In terms of wide adoption of the format, we believe that none of the two
will be winner or a knockout looser, with MS dominating the user base at
85%. The two formats will coexist, but OOo will become more and more the
open format reference for interoperability across platforms.\"

\"Lack of presentation fidelity could also have dangerous effects. On
June 27, 1988, a train crashed into the Gare de Lyon in Paris at high
speed and without braking. More than fifty people were killed in the
accident and a considerable number wounded. The accident was found to be
caused by the coincidence of two badly formatted indented instructions
in the maintenance manual.\"

\"2.2.7 Spport for emerging word processor features This criterion
extends the above one to those more advanced features, which we believe
will be part of the future word processor tools:

-   Digital signatures
-   Access rights
-   Copyright and Digital Rights Management
-   Version control and Collaboration
-   Support for user-defined XML Schemas.

As discussed earlier, we foresee electronic document to become more and
more decoupled from application. More and more applications will
intervene on subparts of the document. The recently added support for
user-defined XML schemas in Word2003 confirms this trend. A Word
document can now contain Word mark-up, in combination with extra
attributes to be used by other business pplications. Situations are
imaginable where many applications intervene in a similar way on the
same document.\"

### Office 2003 and MS XML {#office_2003_and_ms_xml}

\"In Microsoft Word, users can:

-   Lock down portions of Word documents to prevent editing.
-   Assign permissions, enabling only certain users to make changes (the
    \"compare and merge\" feature is greatly improved, making it easier
    to see all reviewers\' comments)

Document Workspaces allow users to:

-   Co-author, modify and review files via a centralized, Web-based
    repository of files, tasks and lists of links and team members
-   Share attachments and contacts, giving their cohorts access to the
    latest versions of documents at any given time.\"

Also, using the XML schemas, it is possible to integrate Office
documents into business processes. For example, a letter is written to a
client that includes the customer number, the subject and the date, each
of these has a style attached to it. Based on the style, a down stream
process can extract these fields and put them in a CRM system with a
pointer to the actual document. The administrator just writes the letter
and the rest happens automatically.\"

#### MS XML intellectual property issues {#ms_xml_intellectual_property_issues}

\"MS does not believe the patent licence will hinder vendors such as
Oracle or IBM or other players from developing
[WordProcessingML](WordProcessing "wikilink") compatible tools. MS
believes that standardising the XML Reference Schemas will bring the
risk of slowing down their evolution, which could hinder development of
future features in MS Office. According to Microsoft, \'the XML
Reference Schema announcement underlines Microsoft\'s commitment to
constructive dialogue with governments and the industry with regard to
intellectual property issues. Microsoft listened to requests for
clarification of its licensing policy with regard to the Office 2003 XML
Reference Schemas and is now responding to those requests by delivering
a world-wide open and royalty-free licensing program. Individuals and
organisations, including governments, academics and commercial software
vendors, can enter into the license.\'\"

\"Regarding MS XML Reference schemas and the above definition, we could
express the following reservations:

-   MS XML Reference schemas elements can contain proprietary objects.
    These objects are encoded in a standard-compliant fashion (ex:
    base64, UTF-8, etc.) but some of them may be executed only in a
    Microsoft environment (ex: OLE).

\-\--\> 2. Comment by Microsoft: \"This statement is true, and is
equally true of other formats as well, including the OOo file format.
XML is extensible. Therefore, proprietary objects may be embedded. For
instance, proprietary Java applets can be embedded in
[StarOffice](StarOffice "wikilink") documents. Perhaps this point can be
stated as a neutral observation about extensible formats in general
rather than a \'reservation\' that is specific to the Microsoft XML
Reference schemas.\" \<\-\-- 2.

1.  1.  Later MS replied on TAC (5.)
    2.  \- MS will document non-XML formatted elements in XML language
        in the next Office release.
    3.  \- MS will continue to incorporate into XML documents compiled
        code like video and audio clips,
    4.  and stuff like ActiveX Controls or Java programs, because
        \'governments and citizens may need\' it.
    5.  (custom summary)

-   The spreadsheet macros are spread within the content XML elements.
    It is therefore very difficult to isolate the code from the text by
    a third-party program. Furthermore, these macros cannot be executed
    outside the MS-Office environment.

\-\--\> 2. Comment by Microsoft: \"Proprietary macros may be included in
documents, but this is not a weakness of Microsoft\'s implementation of
XML. The ability to manage macros is a feature of a word processing
application. The Office XML schemas are a viable cross-platform
solution. There is no inherent platform restriction in the Microsoft
schemas.\" \<\-\-- 2.

\"3.4.3.1 The intellectual property

The intellectual property remains with Microsoft. The license precludes
the modification or extension of the schemas. Microsoft is not offering
these schemas to a standards body. Patents are associated to the
license.

[License excerpts:](Patent "wikilink") \'Microsoft may have patents
and/or patent applications that are necessary for you to license in
order to make, sell, or distribute software programs that read or write
files that comply with the Microsoft specifications for the Office
Schemas\...\' \'Except as provided below, Microsoft hereby grants you a
royalty-free license under Microsoft\'s Necessary Claims to make, use,
sell, offer to sell, import, and otherwise distribute Licensed
Implementations solely for the purpose of reading and writing files that
comply with the Microsoft specifications for the Office Schemas.\'

The schema download contains language that allows to copy and distribute
the schema, subject to certain limitations (credit it and link to a
particular page at Microsoft). But the download doesn\'t grant the right
to implement a program that can use the specifications.

This part is ambiguous. Two theories conflict on this manner. The first
one translates \"not being licensed to distribute under other license
terms in the Patent License\" as a clause designed to prevent
application that use the Gnu General Public License (GPL) from
implementing Office XML compatibility. Developers writing open source
software should be careful before using these schemas. The second, more
positive, is from Eben Moglen, the Free Software Foundation FSF\'s pro
bono counsel. He told www.theregister.co.uk he didn\'t think the alarm
is justified. \'This is not a license that I would like to accept;
Microsoft is saying we might have some patents. But it\'s not a problem
if Microsoft is making it available to everyone to make use and sell.\'

\"While Microsoft will make available the Office schemas, the company
will retain control over how those schemas are developed in the future.
That puts the burden on competitors to keep up with Microsoft\'s
changes. At the same time, Microsoft reserves the right to change its
policy and/or the terms of the licenses with respect to future versions
of Office.\"

\"The actual Microsoft patent statement says you must obtain a license
if you use the information in a separate application for compatibility.
Quoting them: \'There is a separate patent license available to parties
interested in implementing software programs that can read and write
files that conform to the Specification.\'\"

\-\--\> 2. Statement by Microsoft: \"This Microsoft license follows a
common approach to intellectual property license grants by expressly
stating the activities included within the scope of the license, as
opposed to describing the activities that are not. As stated in the
License Agreement, the licensee has the right \'to make, use, sell,
offer to sell, import, and otherwise distribute Licensed Implementations
solely for the purpose of reading and writing files that comply with the
Microsoft specifications for the Office Schemas\'. A \'Licensed
Implementation\" means only those specific portions of a software
product that read and writes files that are fully compliant with the
specifications for the Office Reference Schemas.\' \<\-\-- 2.

#### The [OpenOffice](OpenOffice "wikilink").org Office-Suite {#the_openoffice.org_office_suite}

\"OpenOffice.org (OOo) is an office applications suite.
[OpenOffice](OpenOffice "wikilink").org is a community-based project and
is based on the open-sourced code from an older version of
[StarOffice](StarOffice "wikilink") created by Sun Microsystems. The
goal of the [OpenOffice](OpenOffice "wikilink").org community is to
\'create the leading international office suite that will run on all
major platforms and provide access to all functionality and data through
open-component based [APIs](APIs "wikilink") and an XML-based file
format.\' As described in the overview document,
[OpenOffice](OpenOffice "wikilink").org is both an Open Source product
and a project. The product is a multi-platform office productivity
suite. It includes the key desktop applications, such as a word
processor, spreadsheet, presentation manager, and drawing program, with
a user interface and feature set similar to other office suites.
[OpenOffice](OpenOffice "wikilink").org also works transparently with a
variety of file formats, including those of Microsoft Office.
[OpenOffice](OpenOffice "wikilink").org is available for download on the
[OpenOffice](OpenOffice "wikilink").org website and distributed by
partner vendors.\"

\"The [OpenOffice](OpenOffice "wikilink").org format is an XML format,
which is fully documented and freely available from the
[OpenOffice](OpenOffice "wikilink").org open source community. Its use
and extensibility is provided freely with no legal constraints.
Furthermore, [OpenOffice](OpenOffice "wikilink") format is being
standardized by OASIS, the \'Organization for the Advancement of
Structured Information Standards\'. OASIS is a not-for-profit, global
consortium that drives the development, convergence and adoption of
e-business standards. OASIS has more than 600 corporate and individual
members in 100 countries around the world. OASIS and the United Nations
jointly sponsor ebXML, a global framework for e-business data exchange.
The purpose of the OASIS [OpenOffice](OpenOffice "wikilink") Technical
Committee is to create an open, XML-based file format specification for
office applications.\"

\"4.3.2 Cross-platform interoperability This criterion holds true for
the OOo format, at least for the platforms on which the
[OpenOffice](OpenOffice "wikilink")/StarOffice tools have been
implemented. Nothing in the OOo format as such should prevent it from
being processed on further existing platforms, or future ones.\" \"The
user base is difficult to establish precisely, mainly due to the fact
that one could not distinguish users from those who simply download. One
thing seems to be sure, however, is that OOo adoption in governments and
Administrations is beyond any doubt as the following sample illustrate:

-   France : November 2003: The French Ministry of interior has already
    migrated 15,000 desktops to [OpenOffice](OpenOffice "wikilink").org
    and intends to migrate another 15,000 on the 100,000 ministry
    desktops within a year.
-   United Kingdom: December 2003: British government contract to fit
    500,000 computers with Staroffice.
-   Germany: The German government is moving to standardize on Linux and
    an open-source IT model at the federal, state and communal levels.
    The city of Munich, the third largest in Germany, has also chosen
    Linux and the free [OpenOffice](OpenOffice "wikilink").org
    productivity suite for its more than 15,000 desktop systems.

Other countries and administrations include China, Thailand, Israel,
Australia, Philippines, Uganda, and Vietnam. The main criteria in favour
of [OpenOffice](OpenOffice "wikilink")/Staroffice adoption are the price
(free or extremely low), openness, and multiplaform capabilities
especially for Linux and Windows.\"

Some of the reports reference links:

Oasis <http://www.oasis-open.org>

Market Overview 2003: Office Productivity Suites Erosion Begins for
Microsoft Office Dominance <http://www.gigaweb.com>

Microsoft Licenses Office 2003 XML Reference Schemas
<http://xml.coverpages.org/LicenseOfficeSchemas.html>

German study by Soreon: 25% cost savings with Microsoft alternatives
<http://de.internet.com/?id=2025258&section=Marketing-Statistics>

Office 2003: une entreprise sur cinq envisage de migrer
<http://www.01net.com/article/220532.html>

STATSKONTORET, Interoperability Test and XML Evaluation of
[StarOffice](StarOffice "wikilink") Writer 6.0 and Office Word 2003 Beta
2 <https://createpdf.adobe.com/cgi-feeder.pl/help_general?BP=&LOC=en_US>

Microsoft licensing could push users to
[StarOffice](StarOffice "wikilink")
<http://www.computerworld.com/printthis/2002/0,4814,70710,00.html>

Aristote Seminar (Huc Presentation)
<http://www.microsoft.com/presspass/press/2003/nov03/11-17XMLRefSchemaEMEAPR.asp>

OpenOffice.org XML File Format
<http://xml.coverpages.org/starOfficeXML.html> \<\-\-- 1. (report)

\-\--\> 3. (Sun) \"To meet the criteria established within the Valoris
report, a document format must be non-binary (section 2.2.2). As a
result, Microsoft\'s XML Reference Schemas were researched for
evaluating the Microsoft Office 2003 suite. However, the report never
mentioned that the XML Reference Schemas do not fully describe all
document formats used by the applications within Microsoft\'s Office
suite. For example, there is no way to save Microsoft
[PowerPoint](PowerPoint "wikilink") documents in a non-binary/XML
format, nor is there an associated XML Reference Schema available for
[PowerPoint](PowerPoint "wikilink"). Since
[PowerPoint](PowerPoint "wikilink") is a core application within
Microsoft\'s Office suite, and creating presentations is a common
function performed by users of office suites, this is a significant
omission. Also, some of the advanced features supported by Office 2003,
such as Information Rights Managements (IRM), are only supported when
using the proprietary binary Office document formats. Since part of the
evaluation criteria established for this evaluation project include
support for \'emerging word processor features\' (section 2.2.7) these
details are important to note.\"

\"Further, the chart in section 6.1 listing market share statistics for
Microsoft\'s Office suite doesn\'t include Office 2003. Since the XML
Reference Schemas are only applicable to Office 2003, and the project
did not consider evaluating the Microsoft proprietary binary document
formats used by other versions of Office, caution should be used when
attempting to infer conclusions based on the stated market share
statistics.\" \<\-\-- 3.

\-\--\> 6. (Sun on TAC) \"We believe that documents are the intellectual
capital of those who create them, whether they be governments, private
entities or citizens. In the case of governments this means that the
documents you create are your property - nobody else\'s - and they
should therefore be stored in well-designed, truly open, long-lived and
sharable data formats which can be retrieved and re-used by future
generations. Sun fully shares the European Commission\'s point of view
about the importance of standardization across the spectrum of this
technology; this is why we submitted the
[OpenOffice](OpenOffice "wikilink").org format to OASIS in the first
place. Upon consideration, we agree with your recommendation concerning
ISO, and I am delighted to inform you that on September 1st we publicly
notified the relevant OASIS technical committee of our position. Since
then, this idea has been welcomed by the committee and by Best, OASIS\'
Vice President. Note that since we do not control the committee, or
OASIS, or ISO, we cannot promise success, but we do not foresee serious
obstacles at the moment and I think we can be optimistic that the OASIS
Open Office XML format will become an ISO standard.\" \"I am also very
pleased to announce that Sun has developed Open Source WordML and
ExcelML filters which will be in the next release of Sun\'s
[StarOffice](StarOffice "wikilink") (version 8) and in the next release
of [OpenOffice](OpenOffice "wikilink").org from the
[OpenOffice](OpenOffice "wikilink").org open source project.These
filters will be available for adaptation and re-use by others in
industry.\" \<\-\-- 6.

\-\--\> 7. (IBM on TAC) \"These principles are particularly relevant for
e-government applications with respect to the creation, manipulation and
exchange of documents within public administrations, as well as between
such administrations and citizens. Public administrations are driven to
use a select number of common file formats by their need to share and
maintain the fidelity of their documents. It is essential that public
sector documents be available in a commonly used open file format so as
to avoid use of closed, proprietary formats which result in \"vendor
lock-in\" and the imposition of a single technology choice on citizens,
enterprises and other organisations seeking to exchange documents with
public administrations. The ongoing work on open file formats in OASIS
is an excellent step forward in efforts to develop a file format which
meets the requirements outlined above. IBM follows closely the
activities of the Open Office XML Format Technical Committee in OASIS
and has informed OASIS that we intend to join the relevant technical
committee. Indeed, we already offer products (IBM Workplace Client
Technology) which conform with the current draft specifications
developed within the OASIS TC.\" \<\-\-- 7.

## Analysis

-   2006-07-12 EU [SFLC/Eben Moglen:
    [OpenDocument](OpenDocument "wikilink") Opinion on OASIS patent
    policy](http://www.softwarefreedom.org/publications/OpenDocument.html "wikilink")
