1.  1.  -\*- dok: [SePhob050701](SePhob050701 "wikilink"); lang: en;
        coding: iso-8859-1; mode: fundamental; -\*-
    2.  datum: 2005-07-01

# Swedish patent officials lobby against cross-partisan amendments {#swedish_patent_officials_lobby_against_cross_partisan_amendments}

-\> \[ [ deutsch](SePhob050701De "wikilink") \] \[ [
Sweden](SwpatseEn "wikilink") \| [ 21
Amendments](AmPlenPr05En "wikilink") \| [SE
recommendations](http://swpat.ffii.org/papers/europarl0309/amends05/plen0507/sv/prv-assess.pdf "wikilink")
\| [ Patent News](SwpatcninoEn "wikilink") \]

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*1st July 2005 by erjos \-- Voting recomendations from patent officials
of the Swedish Ministry of Justice show either lack of basic knowledge
in patent law or unwillingness to understand core amendments from the
cross party compromise tabled by groups from all over the political
spectrum.*

The saying \"never ascribe to malice, that which can be explained by
incompetence\" is a good rule of thumb, but leaked documents from a
meeting yesterday at the Swedish Permanent Representation in Brussels
where Swedish !MEPs and assistants were invited to discuss the European
Parliament\'s amendments to the Council\'s Software Patents Directive
show either a lack of basic understanding of patent law, or an attempt
to push a pro-software patent agenda with convoluted and unclear
arguments.

The Swedish !MEPs have been lobbied by the Swedish patent officials even
more intensly than by Ericsson and the big industry associations. MEP
Anders Wijkman highlighted the government lobbying on the [ EPP-hosted
conference \"Claiming Economic Majorities: the Software Patent
Case\"](Konf050629En "wikilink") on 29 June. The Swedish government has
repeatly made it very clear they support the Council\'s text.

The [ 21 cross-partisan amendments](AmPlenPr050701En "wikilink") are
mostly unacceptable to the Swedish patent officials. The reasons given
are unclear and contradictory, and shows signs of wilful
misinterpretation of the amendments\' intentions.

When the EP [ defines \"technology\" as \"applied natural
science\"](JuriTech0505En "wikilink"), the Swedish patent officials
argue \"to make it more exact it would be better to talk about \'applied
natural science and engineering science\'\". In other words they want to
replace \"technology\" by the broader term \"engineering\", which
includes financial engineering, social engineering, business methods and
in fact almost anything except perhaps for applied astrology, which,
according to this [well-known
approach](http://swpat.ffii.org/papers/jwip-schar98/ "wikilink"), might
not qualify as an \"applied exact science\".

All amendments that [ keep the requirements for patentability
separate](JuriInvstep0505En "wikilink") (to amend the convoluted EPO
doctrines), are accused of \"putting the conditions into one another\".

Any amendment that implies that data processing solutions (i.e. computer
programs) must be excluded from patentability is rejected by the Swedish
patent officials. Everywhere an amendment would imply this, the Swedish
officials insist on inserting \"as such\".

Clarifying amendments are accused of \"hair splitting\" while amendments
that makes clear a computer program is data processing solution are
treated like untouchable aliens. Even if the European parliament\'s [
definition of a \"computer\"](JuriProg0505En "wikilink") is as close as
you can get to the standard industry definition, it is not understood at
all by the Swedish officials. Overall, any implication that a computer
program is a solution to a problem is met with haptophobia (fear of
touching).

Finally, any university course in Swedish patent law clearly teaches
there are four requirements for patentability:

\"For the method to be patentable it must be

1.  an invention
2.  that is industrially applicable
3.  that is new \...
4.  and meets the inventive step requirement.\"
    ([Source](http://www.juridicum.su.se/jurweb/utbildning/grundkurser/c3/svarsmall%20040606.pdf "wikilink"))

Nevertheless the officials from the Ministry of Justice insist there are
only three.
