
Statement by France

"Too many uncertainties surround current legislation on the
patentability of computer-implemented inventions. The gap has steadily
widened between the applicable texts, under which computer programs "as
such" are not patentable, and the practice followed by the relevant
offices, which in dealing with the development of information
technologies have tended to issue an increasing number of patents for
computer-implemented inventions.

This situation is detrimental to innovation in Europe's software
sector. The French authorities' consistent aim has been to have a
Directive which lays down rules that are clear in law and provides a
precise framework for practice in this field.

The text adopted by the Council should put an end to these
uncertainties; it provides the legal certainty that is essential for
the proper development of information technologies in Europe. It takes
account of the European Parliament's major concerns ? as recommended by
the French authorities at the Council meeting on 14 November 2002 ?
while striking a balance between different stakeholders' interests and
ensuring compatibility with the TRIPs agreement.

Some aspects of the Directive nevertheless appear to be open to
conflicting interpretations. The French authorities will study
carefully the European Parliament's reaction to the text adopted today
by the Council. France, too, wishes to have a consistent, unequivocal
text. The French authorities will take care to ensure that the new
legal environment impacts positively on all parties concerned, the
software industry as a whole, in particular small and medium-sized
enterprises, and the open-source software sector.

The French authorities will accordingly be very vigilant as regards the
proper implementation of the Directive's impact clauses and the lessons
to be learnt from them, in particular as regards changes to the
applicable rules."
