= Largest Danish Software Companies Oppose Irish Software Patent Proposal =

On 13th of May two public traded Danish companies ([[http://www.simcorp.com/|SimCorp]] and [[http://www.maconomy.com/|Maconomy]])
wrote a letter of concern to the Danish parliament committee which
monitors and confirms the government policy in the European union.

The original letter in Danish is a public document.
 * http://eu-oplysningen.dk/upload/application/pdf/7b42a3e5/20040851.pdf

Here is an unofficial translation by Peter Mogensen (peter at
digitalforbruger dk) of a letter to the Danish parliament committee
from two of denmark's most known software companies.

----
Page 1:

We hereby deliver a letter for the committee meeting on May 14th
regarding the request of our two companies that Denmark not support the
passing of the "software patent directive" on the council meeting May
17-18th 2004.

We request that this document is circulated to the members of the
committee as soon as possible.

On behalf of the the undersigned 2 companies

Maconomy A/S
Simcorp A/S

Kind regards
Simcorp A/S

Peter Theill

----
Page 2:

We are among the largest danish owned software developing companies and
we must express our concern about the Irish proposal for a directive on
computer implemented innovations which is on the agenda for the
upcoming Council meeting May 17th-18th. 2004.

Our core business is development and adjustments of our own software
solutions, which we sell in international markets. Our products are very
complex and composed from a large number of ideas. Because of this our
products can not be protected from imitation by one or a few patents. We
further estimate that the cost of acquiring software patents does not
compare to what we can expect to earn by acquiring them. Therefore, we
have after careful consideration chosen not to spend resources on
acquiring patents. Many innovations happen in our companies, but our
employees do not have the time to figure out which ones in reality are
novelties.

If we should acquire patents, we should hire employees whose job would
be monitoring the innovations we produce. They should further assess
whether these were legally speaking inventions and find out whether
similar inventions had been made elsewhere in the world. These employees
should then estimate which possible patents were worth spending
resources to acquire. Finally they should acquire the patents and defend
them.

It would be very costly to hire such patents experts and some of our
patents would very likely become obsolete because of the rapid
development in the IT-sector.


We have a much greater need for these resources for improving and
updating our core products themselves. After all, that's were we have
our strongest international competence, which is essential for us to
remain and improve, and it is essential to us that we retain and extend
this competence.

It must be noted that it would be very insufficient to subsidise small
and medium sized enterprises for the patent application process itself,
since this is only a small part of the costs of having a patent department.

----
Page 3:

Since our products are very complex, we fear a situation where our
products infringes on a large number of patents. Software development is
to a high degree based on the use and expansion of the ideas of others,
but also that the same ideas are conceived and used in many places. Our
product development is based on this and we are deeply concerned that we
in the future must spend resources on monitoring patents, negotiating
license agreements and paying royalties. That can become a significant
workload and economical burden which will make our business difficult.

We do not understand why the danish government - and possibly a majority
of the parliament - plans to lessen our competitiveness by supporting
the Irish proposal for a software patent directive, in the council. We
are astonished that the Irish presidency has discarded all of the
amendments which were accepted by the European parliament in the fall of 2003.

The Irish presidency has removed the parliament art. 2a, 4.3, 4.3a and
4b which limits software patents to include technology understood as
"utilizing natural forces to control physical effects beyond numerical
representation of information". The condition for an invention to be
patentable is that it has a "technical contribution" or "technical
character". But neither the Irish proposal nor the European Patent
Office legal foundation has any definition of when a contribution is
"technical" or when it's not. If clear limits of patentability are not
decided from the political side we can expect the system to evolve to
American conditions where companies such as ours must spend considerable
resources to monitor that we do not inadvertently infringe on a large
number of patents.

The US Federal Trade Commission released in 2003 a report on the
American patent system. Chapter 3.V deals with software patents. [1]
Chapter 3.V is written based on statements from a panel consisting of
large and small American software companies. It is concluded:

"Many panelists and participants expressed the view that software and
Internet patent are impeding innovation. They stated that such patents
are impairing follow-on incentives, increasing entry barriers, creating
uncertainty that harms incentives to invest in innovation, and producing
patent thickets. ... Commentators noted that patent thickets make it
more difficult to commercialize new products and raise uncertainty and
investment risks." [[p |3.54, pdf page 163]]

One of the panel participants concluded that there could be "potentially
dozens or hundreds of patents covering individual components of a
product." [[p |3.52, pdf page 161]]

----
Page 4:

This describes well what we expect the situation in Europe to become if
narrow and clear limits on patentability of software are not set as
decided by the European parliament. Such a situation, where there's no
clear limits of patentability of software must be generally regarded as
bad for innovation in the Danish software industry, including our
companies.

In particular we fear patents on interoperability and standards. We need
our software to be able to communicate freely with other software
without having to take into account unnecessary restrictions imposed on
us by other companies, e.g. competitors. If there has to be patents on
interoperability and standards, they must be free and without
restrictions such as the W3C is demanding it before approving new
standards for the Internet (html, xhtml, XML). Therefore, we are also
deeply concerned that the Irish presidency has removed the parliaments
art. 6.2 [[6a, |ed.]], which prevents patents on interoperability. It can
become very problematic for us, if starndards on which we depend are
patented, as it is already happening today in both USA, Japan and Europe.

On this background we request and urge the Danish government and Danish
parliament to reject the Irish proposal for a software directive in its
present form and further to demand that the European parliament art. 2b,
4.3, 4.3a, 4b and 6a are reinstated when it is discussed in the council.

kind regards,

[[http://www.maconomy.dk/|Maconomy]]

[[http://www.simcorp.dk/|SimCorp]]

[1]: To promote innovation: The proper balance of competition and patent
law and policy. http://www.ftc.gov/os/2003/10/innovationrpt.pdf

[Ed. Remark: Company info was attached to the letter. This is more or
less the same as on:

http://simcorp.com/about simcorp.aspx?lang=en
http://www.maconomy.com/article.aspx?id=10117

Also it is mentioned that Maconomy had a 2003 turnover of DKK 161m, 68%
from abroad, is traded on the Cph stock exchange and has 188 employees.

Simcorp is stated as DKK 499m turnover, 84% from abroad.

7.45 DKK is about 1 EUR]
