1.  1.  -\*- dok: [AmPlen050701](AmPlen050701 "wikilink"); lang: en;
        coding: iso-8859-1; mode: fundamental; -\*-

# 21 compromise amendments tabled by [MEPs](MEPs "wikilink") from all groups in the European Parliament (Rocard-Buzek-Duff) {#compromise_amendments_tabled_by_meps_from_all_groups_in_the_european_parliament_rocard_buzek_duff}

-\> \[ [ français](AmPlenPr050701Fr "wikilink") \| [
italiano](AmPlenPr050701It "wikilink") \] \[ [
Amendments](Plen05En "wikilink") \| [MEP
Info](http://www.ffii.org/amend "wikilink") \|
[Economic-Majority](http://www.economic-majority.com "wikilink") \| [
News](SwpatcninoEn "wikilink") \]

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Brussels, 1 July 2005 \-- Members from all political sides are showing
their support for 21 cross-partisan compromise amendments to the
European software patent directive. The European Parliament is clearly
readying itself to gather the required 367 votes to amend the Council\'s
proposal in the second reading, scheduled to take place on July 6th.*

Mr [ Rocard](MichelRocardEn "wikilink"), the rapporteur and former Prime
Minister of France, has tabled the cross-partisan amendments in the name
of the PSE group. The amendments have also been tabled by the IND/DEM
(with one small change), the Greens/EFA and the GUE/NGL groups. They are
also tabled by prominent representatives of the ALDE and EPP-ED groups.

Members of the European People\'s Party (EPP-ED, conservatives and
christian-democrats) Zuzana Roithová (Czech Republic) and former Polish
Prime Minister Jerzy Buzek have rallied a group of 55 EPP !MEPs who
tabled the 21 amendments providing a platform for an alternative
position within their party. The situation is reminiscent to what
happened during the EP\'s first reading, when a group of !MEPs led by [
Piia-Noora Kauppi](PiiaNooraKauppiEn "wikilink") challenged the official
EPP party line.

Once more, the \"official EPP party line\" contains far-reaching
proposals to impose heavy burdens on !SMEs under the label \"reasonable
and non-discriminatory\" (RAND) licenses and would make it impossible
for the European Parliament to garner majority support for a coherent
alternative to the Council text.

The 21 cross-partisan amendments have also been tabled by MEP Andrew
Duff \"and others\". This means that at least 37 members of the ALDE
(Liberal) group are now officially showing support for a line similar to
that [recommended by the European Liberal Youth association
LYMEC](http://swpat.ffii.org/log/05/lymec04/ "wikilink").

Any amendment to be adopted in the second reading will require strong
support. The reason is that for an amendment to pass, it requires
support from a majority of the \"component members\" of the parliament,
which is 367 !MEPs. In practice, this means that every \"abstain\" vote
will be a vote in favour of the Council text. Therefore, all !MEPs will
actively support one position or the other with each and every vote they
cast (or do not cast).

On a related note, the [\"Economic Majority against Software
Patents\"](http://www.economic-majority.com/ "wikilink") initiative
almost doubled its support since the official launch on Monday last
week. The platform now represents over 1,650 companies employing almost
30,000 people and with a turnover of over 3,188 billion euro, with new
companies joining daily. The website also already features 66 individual
testimonies in which business owners explain how software patents would
affect their enterprise.

## Background information {#background_information}

-   [21 cross-partisan amendments
    (PDF)](http://swpat.ffii.org/papers/europarl0309/amends05/komprom0506.en.pdf "wikilink")
-   [ Goals of the most important
    amendments](AmPlenSummary05En "wikilink")
-   [ Explanations of the most important
    amendments](AmPlenExplanation05En "wikilink")
-   [ Tabled amendments and analyses](Plen05En "wikilink")
-   [Economic-Majority.com](http://www.economic-majority.com "wikilink")

## Contact information {#contact_information}

`Erik Josefsson`\
`FFII Brussels Representative`\
`erjos at ffii.org`\
`+32-484-082063`

`Rufus Pollock`\
`FFII UK`\
`rufus.pollock at ffii.org.uk`\
`+44-1223-690423`

`Gérald Sédrati-Dinet`\
`gibus at ffii.fr`\
`Vice President FFII`\
`+33-6-60-56-36-45`

`Hartmut Pilch and Holger Blasum`\
`FFII Munich Office`\
`info at ffii.org`\
`+49-89-18979927`

## About FFII \-- <http://www.ffii.org> {#about_ffii____httpwww.ffii.org}

The Foundation for a Free Information Infrastructure (FFII) is a
non-profit association registered in several European countries, which
is dedicated to the spread of data processing literacy. The FFII
supports the development of public information goods based on copyright,
free competition, open standards. More than 500 members, 1,400 companies
and 80,000 supporters have entrusted the FFII to act as their voice in
public policy questions concerning exclusion rights (intellectual
property) in data processing. The FFII maintains offices in Munich and
Brussels and national supporter groups in most European countries.
