# BBC struggling to develop patent-free video codec {#bbc_struggling_to_develop_patent_free_video_codec}

## Heise Article {#heise_article}

-   [Heise article on which this text is
    based](http://www.heise.de/newsticker/meldung/47254 "wikilink")

The [BBC](http://www.bbc.co.uk/ "wikilink") has developed a video codec,
[Dirac](http://sourceforge.net/projects/dirac "wikilink") which is able
to compress videos by means of wavelet compression at a resolution of
1920 Ã— 1080 \-- about two times more dense than is possible with MPEG-2
codecs.

Aside from a reduced bit rate at high resolutions, it is said that the
codec will be optimized particularily for internet streaming
resolutions. Dirac is written in C++ and is currently at the
experimental stage. The developers are hoping that the result of their
development efforts will be a structurally simple and open codec, in
which the free source community and universities will both participate.

In contrast to the Fourier Transformation of image contents into
frequencies which is used in codecs such as MPEG-2, the Wavelet
Transformation does not make use of ordinary sine and cosine functions
but, specially formed and localized base functions, so-called Wavelets.

The BBC has participated in the [European Commission\'s consultations on
software patents of
2000/10-2001/01](http://swpat.ffii.org/papers/eukonsult00/ "wikilink")
and [has expressed strong
reservations](http://swpat.ffii.org/papers/eukonsult00/bbc/ "wikilink")
about the effects of patents in particular on broadcasting standards.

## Links in this Article: {#links_in_this_article}

-   \[3\] <http://www.amara.com/IEEEwave/IEEEwavelet.html>
-   \[4\] [mailto:mhe\@ct.heise.de](mailto:mhe@ct.heise.de)

The following Text could be found in the associated forums:

## Covered by European Patent No. 0985193 {#covered_by_european_patent_no._0985193}

Tux (11. Mai 2004 13:20)

Sadly, however, the bare notion of wavelets have been planted in the
software patent mine field.

The Wavelet Transformation algorithm falls under the EP 0985193:
<http://swpat.ffii.org/pikta/txt/ep/0985/193/>

Whoever wants to integrate codecs based on this algorithm into Mozilla
without paying license royalties should subscribe here:
<http://www.ffii.org/ffii-cgi/aktiv?f=euparl&l=en>

Tux
