1.  1.  -\*- dok: ccia050630; lang: en; coding: iso-8859-1; mode:
        fundamental; -\*-
    2.  datum: 2005-06-30

# FFII: CCIA Warns of Americanization of European Patent System {#ffii_ccia_warns_of_americanization_of_european_patent_system}

\[ [ News](SwpatcninoEn "wikilink") \]

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*In a press release Ed Black from CCIA reaffirms his views presented on
the 1 June EPP conference: Europe should not make the same mistake as
the US. CCIA is a mostly American association of computer and
communications industry firms.*

([Copy on their own
website](http://www.ccianet.org/modules.php?op=modload&name=News&file=article&sid=594&mode=thread&order=0&thold=0 "wikilink"))

## CCIA Press release {#ccia_press_release}

For Immediate Release June 30, 2005

For further information contact:

`Ed Black`\
`President & CEO, CCIA`\
`eblack att ccianet.org`\
`Office: 202-783-0070`\
`Mobile: 202-297-2242`

`Will Rodger`\
`Director of Public Policy`\
`wrodger att ccianet.org`\
`Office: 202-783-0070 x 105`

### CCIA Warns of Americanization of European Patent System {#ccia_warns_of_americanization_of_european_patent_system}

With the European Parliament poised to vote on the controversial
software patent directive, Ed Black, President & CEO of the Computer &
Communications Industry, today warned of the “Americanization” of the
European patent system.

“Supporters of the Council’s Common Position argue that the directive
would draw the line against software patents,” Black said, “but you only
have to look at the Commission’s original case for the directive (the
1997 Green Paper and the 1999 Communication) to see that the directive
was motivated by a misguided desire to emulate the U.S. patent system.

He added: “Look who is supporting the directive: the most dominant
software companies and the trade associations they fund.” He noted that
SAP, the dominant European business software company, just published a
full-page ad in European Voice, urging the Parliament to support the
Council’s Common Position.

“What few in Europe realize,” he said, “is that a fierce struggle over
patent reform is taking place before the U.S. Congress. In recent years
many corporate stakeholders, entrepreneurial inventors and consumer
groups have come to understand that the US system is seriously broken,
especially in the software/ICT areas. The ICT sector is pitted against
drugs and biotechnology. Software suffers the worst failings of an
inflated patent system, with the fewest benefits.”

Although the European Patent Convention supposedly does not allow
patents on computer programs as such, the European Patent Office has,
nevertheless, issued some 30,000 to 50,000 patents, the vast majority to
firms outside of Europe. The European Parliament passed numerous
amendments on the first reading of the Directive that wisely limited
patents to conventional material inventions (although software could be
a part of the invention). However, the Council reasserted the
Commission’s version of the directive.

Said Black: “It makes no sense to validate the enormous volume of
patents just because the EPO issued them to those who asked for them. If
the Directive is not appropriately modified, it will result in an
explosion of software patents and a restraint on truly valuable
innovation. Software patents will not increase the innovation efforts of
software companies. However, it will benefit some large companies
amassing huge patent portfolios, “patent trolls,” and all lawyers. But
they create many losers, not only among developers and contractors, but
also all the way down the value chain to major IT users and consumers.
Until the problem of sky-high administrative and transaction costs of
the patent can be resolved and the additional problems peculiar to
software can be addressed, nobody should contemplate making development
of good software more difficult, costly, and uncertain than it already
is.”

On Wednesday, the Parliament once again faces a vast array of proposed
amendments. Black commented, “!MEPs face conflicting evidence and wildly
inconsistent advice from lobbyists and fellow !MEPs. Unfortunately, the
Commission did not do its job in analyzing and framing the problem. This
is not just about patents, this is about the future of software, the
nature of innovation and competition in the knowledge economy, and the
future of the information society.”

CCIA’s analysis, Drawing the Line(s) in the Debate over Software
Patents, was issued last week. It is available on the CCIA website at

<http://ccianet.org/papers/Patent%20rpt.pdf>

CCIA is an international, nonprofit association of computer and
communications industry firms, representing a broad cross section of the
industry. CCIA is dedicated to preserving full, free and open
competition throughout its industry. Our members employ nearly a million
workers and generate annual revenues in excess of \$250 billion.
