# 2004-05-18 EU Council of Ministers Scraps Parliament\'s Limits on Patentability {#eu_council_of_ministers_scraps_parliaments_limits_on_patentability}

\--\> \[ [ de](Cons040518De "wikilink") \| [
fr](Cons040518Fr "wikilink") \| [ es](Cons040518Es "wikilink") \| [
pt](Cons040518Pt "wikilink") \] \[ [Council Session on
Video](http://wiki.ael.be/index.php/Council18MayVideo "wikilink") \| [..
audio (ogg) and
transcription](http://wiki.ael.be/index.php/Transcription "wikilink") \|
[ Pietras (Poland) letter](Pietras040520En "wikilink") \] \[ [ Media
Echo](ConsMedia040518En "wikilink") \| [ Video Art
Contest](ConsVideo0405En "wikilink") \| [ Bolkestein
PR](CecDgim040518En "wikilink") \| [ Germany](ConsDe040518En "wikilink")
\| [ Latest News](SwpatcninoEn "wikilink") \| [Council
Proposal](http://swpat.ffii.org/papers/europarl0309/cons0401/ "wikilink")
\| [ Future](ConsFutur040518En "wikilink") \| [
Reversal](ConsReversEn "wikilink") \]

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Bolkestein secures slim Council Majority for Unlimited Patentability {#bolkestein_secures_slim_council_majority_for_unlimited_patentability}

The Irish presidency has secured political approval for a new draft of
the controversial software patents Directive in a meeting of the Council
of Ministers today (2004-05-18). This draft is subject to formal
approval at the next meeting of the Council, probably at the beginning
of June. The draft removes all limitations on patentability that the
European Parliament had voted for in September 2003.

Spain (8) expressly voted against the proposal. Belgium (5), Italy (10)
and Austria (4) abstained from the vote. Denmark (3) seemed uneasy,
expressing unhappiness with the trivial modifications that the voting
draft showed, but in the end did not stand against the Presidency\'s
pressure for support.

See <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Qualified_Majority_Voting> for voting
weights.

That made 27 votes refusing to support the text. Had Germany kept its
promise to at least abstain, the 37 votes needed to block it would have
been achieved, and surpassed by votes from countries like Poland who had
apparently been instructed to follow the Germans.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**UPDATE**: It now appears that Poland (8) would also have abstained,
making 35 votes; but that its vote was not called once qualified
majority had been obtained. [ Details](Pietras040520En "wikilink").

------------------------------------------------------------------------

In the initial round of discussions SE, UK, FR, NL, CZ and HU spoke in
favour of the Irish proposal.

BE, PL, ES, DK, AT, DE, LV and IT expressed reservations.

Audio recordings are available at:

-   <http://wiki.ael.be/index.php/Transcription>

Summaries/Transcripts available at:

-   <http://wiki.ael.be/index.php/V002.ogg>
-   <http://wiki.ael.be/index.php/V003.ogg>

However a trivial edit presented as a \"compromise\" by the Commission
was apparently enough to bring the German delegation around, and with
them the Eastern Europeans whose opposition had been based on the German
position.

That left ES voting against the proposal, and BE, IT, and AT refusing to
approve it.

On the key issue of what should and should not count as \"technical,\"
and therefore patentable, the Germans had originally proposed the
additions shown **thus**:

2b. A technical contribution means a contribution to the state of the
art in a field of technology which is **new and** not obvious to a
person skilled in the art. The technical contribution shall be assessed
by consideration of the difference between the state of the art and the
scope of the patent claim considered as a whole, which must comprise
technical features, irrespective of whether these are accompanied by
non-technical features, **whereby the technical features must
predominate. The use of natural forces to control physical effects
beyond the digital representation of information belongs to a technical
field. The mere processing, handling, and presentation of information do
not belong to a technical field, even where technical devices are
employed for such purposes**.

The Commission \"compromise\" was to cut this to:

2b. A technical contribution means a contribution to the state of the
art in a field of technology which is **new and** not obvious to a
person skilled in the art. The technical contribution shall be assessed
by consideration of the difference between the state of the art and the
scope of the patent claim considered as a whole, which must comprise
technical features, irrespective of whether these are accompanied by
non-technical features.

i.e., so the only effect was to insert the word \'new\'.

A few more cosmetic changes to Article 4 and Recital 13 were proposed
(which bloat the text and have no effect whatsoever on whether any
patent claim will be granted or not, but simulate an intention to limit
patentability).

For whatever reason, this was sufficient to win over the German
delegation.

Although sufficient to convince the Ministers, the text remains as
uncompromisingly supportive of EPO-style software and business method
patents as the original Irish draft.

To reinstate amendments in the European Parliament in a second reading
requires absolute majorities \-- absent !MEPs are counted as
pro-Council.

# Alexander Esslinger, Ficpi (Patent attorney association, pro-Patent) {#alexander_esslinger_ficpi_patent_attorney_association_pro_patent}

`On Tuesday 18th May , the Competitiveness Council voted with a (thin) qualified majority in favour `\
`of the  proposal of the Irish presidency which is in general in line with the original Commission `\
`draft and reflecting the current EPO practice, with three amendments from Germany and watered down `\
`(in our favour) by the Commission. Germany then voted in favour of the proposal ...`

Source: <http://www.ficpi.org/whatsnewframe.html>

## Frequently Asked Questions, Introductory Materials for Journalists {#frequently_asked_questions_introductory_materials_for_journalists}

-   [ What\'s wrong with software patents](SwpatArgumentsEn "wikilink")
-   [ What\'s happening in the Council today?](ConsFaq0405En "wikilink")
-   [ Questions to ask at Council Press
    Conference](ConsQuer0405En "wikilink")
-   [Directive
    Council](http://www.ficpi.org/wCompetitiveness.pdf "wikilink")
