1.  1.  -\*- dok: cons040707; lang: en; coding: iso-8859-1; mode:
        fundamental; -\*-

# 2004-07-07 DE Germany amends Council statement that it \"agreed after slight changes\" {#de_germany_amends_council_statement_that_it_agreed_after_slight_changes}

\--\> \[ [ Council 04-05-18](Cons040518En "wikilink") \| [ DE
role](ConsDe040518En "wikilink") \| [
Reversal](ConsRevers04En "wikilink") \| [ Patent
News](SwpatcninoEn "wikilink") \]

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Council documents discovered by FFII show that on 2004 July 07 the
German delegation requested a change in the minutes of the \"Political
Agreement\" of the \"Competitiveness Council\" on the \"Proposal for a
Directive of the European Parliament patentability of
computer-implemented inventions\", Point 12.

The following sentence from [the council the minutes as created
by](http://register.consilium.eu.int/pdf/en/04/st09/st09586.en04.pdf "wikilink")

*The Council reached political agreement with a view to the adoption of
its common position on the proposed Directive, on the basis of the
Presidency compromise proposal (9277/04 ADD 1) as **slightly** amended.*

was amended
([pdf](http://register.consilium.eu.int/pdf/en/04/st09/st09586-am01.en04.pdf "wikilink"))
by the german delegation to:

*The Council reached political agreement with a view to the adoption of
its common position on the proposed Directive, on the basis of the
Presidency compromise proposal (9277/04 ADD 1) as amended \*at the
meeting on the basis of thorough discussions.\**

In fact the amendment consisted only in the insertion of the attributes
\"new and\" in Art 2b, stating that a technical contribution must not
only be inventive but also new.

The Council\'s initial summary is correct, because this insertion in
fact only reduplicates an already existing article of the same
directive, which says that the technical contribution is the difference
between the claim object and the state of the art.

## Comments

[ Hartmut Pilch](HartmutPilchEn "wikilink"):

The German government can not admit that it\'s insertion is
insignificant, because in its public statements, the government
consistently asserts that it accepted the Council\'s proposal \"only
after changes that significantly raise the threshhold for the
patentability of computer-implemented inventions\".

It has often been pointed out that the government is lying, and of
course the government can not tolerate it when even the EU Council\'s
papers point out this lie. Therefore it had to amend this paper and
insert a fiction of a \"thourough debate\". As the publicly available
records of the Council meeting show, such a debate did not take place.

The German [ ministry of justice](SwpatcninoEn "wikilink") is the hard
core of the patent lobby in Germany. They are more uncompromisingly in
favor of unlimited patentability than any industry lobby, and
consistently engaged in lying to the public for the sake of this goal.
Other lies which the same minustry regularly reiterates include:

-   \"We strove for a definition of technical contribution\" \-- the
    ministry did propose such a definition, but at the same time they
    said, even in public, that such a definition is not acceptable for
    \"the industry\" and consequently also not acceptable for the
    government. Article 2b, which contained this definition, was never
    meant as a serious proposal but only used as a means of deceiving
    other delegations, such as the Polish, and breaking their
    resistance.
-   \"We do not want patents on software but only on technical
    inventions involving peripheral equipment such as anti-blocking
    systems\" \-- the Parliament\'s amendments would achieve exactly
    that, but the german government has not only been rejecting these
    amendments but they also introduced and strongly advocated the
    introduction of program claims in the Council. Program claims are
    applicable only in cases where the claimed invention is a program as
    such / pure software.
-   \"If you are not copying from others, you won\'t infringe on a
    patent\" \-- said by Brigitte Zypries in Heise chat
-   \"Patents are cheap, they can be obtained at a cost of 60 eur only\"
    (said by Brigitte Zypries in Heise chat) \-- as anyone knows, the
    main costs are in litigation risks
-   \"not allowing sophisticated software such as MP3 to be patentable
    would be an irresponsible innovation policy\" \-- this bold
    hypothesis is uncorroborated or even falsified by economic studies,
    including studies conducted at the order of the German government.
    The government regularly disregards the results of its economic
    studies, and the ministry of justice seems to make statements in the
    realm of economics while holding serious economic studies in
    contempt
-   \"We need a EU directive in order to bind the EPO\" \-- the EPO is
    not bound by EU law.

The German government has been very friendly to FFII recently. We had
nice talks at so-called round tables and it seems that these helped to
open some windows of understanding here and there. Yet, rather than
inviting us to privileged talks, it would be better if the government
began to speak in plain and honest language to the general public. More
than 1000 [SMEs](SMEs "wikilink") have filled in questionnaires from the
government which the government is now refusing to look at, after it
turned out that most of the answers showed a high competence of the
[SMEs](SMEs "wikilink") in these matters and an industry-wide strong
sentiment against software patents.
