# Questions and Misconceptions about Today\'s Decisions in the Council {#questions_and_misconceptions_about_todays_decisions_in_the_council}

## Related Pages {#related_pages}

-   [ 2004-05-18 Council Approves Software
    Patents](Cons040518En "wikilink")

## Who are the parties of the Irish Presidency\'s \"Compromise\" ? {#who_are_the_parties_of_the_irish_presidencys_compromise}

It is a compromise between administrators of a national patent offices,
negotiated in secret by the \"Working Party on Intellectual Property
(Patents)\" of the EU Council of Ministers, in short the \"Council
Patent Working Group\", i.e. an anonymous group of national patent
administrators. This group is identical with the group that sits on the
Administrative Council of the European Patent Office and has been
responsible for this Office\'s recent policies of granting broad and
trivial patents on \"computer-implemented\" algorithms and business
methods against the letter and spirit of the written law.

This paper is **not** a compromise between the Council and the
Parliament.

Some Coreper officials claim that it is a \"compromise between Microsoft
and Linux\", but it might be more appropriate to say that it is a
\"compromise between Microsoft and the European Patent Office\".
Companies like Microsoft in fact are regular negotiation partners of the
Council Working Group, since they sit on the Standing Advisory Committee
of the European Patent Office.

## Who are the responsible ministers? {#who_are_the_responsible_ministers}

In general those into whose domain the national patent office falls. For
some countries that is the ministry of justice, for others the ministry
of trade and industry, for yet others the ministry of technology and
innovation.

## What role are the ministers playing in this ? {#what_role_are_the_ministers_playing_in_this}

Deciding whether they want to

-   rubberstamp what the national patent office administrators have
    produced.
-   decline to accept the proposal and delay it for further discussion

## What does the Council Working Party\'s proposal say, in a nutshell? {#what_does_the_council_working_partys_proposal_say_in_a_nutshell}

\"Software is not patentable, unless goobledygook\", where upon closer
scrutiny it turns out that condition \"goobledygook\" is always true,
provided that it is interpreted by the European Patent Office\'s
proprietary Patent Newspeak Parser \-- on all other parsers
\"goobledygook\" returns a value of \"undefined\" or an error exception.

The result is \"legal security\" for patent owners: i.e.
\"computer-implemented\" algorithms and business methods such as Amazon
One Click Shopping, which the European Patent Office has been granting
in large numbers against the letter and spirit of the written law, are
moreover without doubt patentable inventions in Europe.

For examples of patents legalised by the Council text, see

-   <http://webshop.ffii.org/>
-   <http://swpat.ffii.org/patents/>

For details how condition \"goobledygook\" assures the above kind of
results, see

-   <http://swpat.ffii.org/papers/europarl0309/cons0401/>
-   <http://swpat.ffii.org/papers/eubsa-swpat0202/tech/>

## They are trying hard to define the border between pure software and technical inventions, aren\'t they? {#they_are_trying_hard_to_define_the_border_between_pure_software_and_technical_inventions_arent_they}

No.

The existing law (EPC) and the European Parliament made that delineation
clear already, but the Council is trying to blur it.

See

-   [The European Patent
    Convention](http://swpat.ffii.org/analysis/epc52/ "wikilink")
-   [The European Parliament\'s
    Directive](http://swpat.ffii.org/papers/europarl0309/ "wikilink")

## Isn\'t this about clarifying the difference between pure software and software that runs industrial machinery? {#isnt_this_about_clarifying_the_difference_between_pure_software_and_software_that_runs_industrial_machinery}

No, this question arises from a deliberate attempt by the patent
administrators to confuse the issues.

Software consists of abstract entities (numbers, symbols, calculation
rules) only. Industrial processes (e.g. new ways of producing chemicals)
can be patentable, regardless of whether that process is controlled by a
computer. The process control software is not patentable (but
copyrightable), regardless of whether it runs on a plain computer or on
a computer with chemical processing equipment attached to it.

The Parliament\'s proposal reconfirms this principle of the European
Patent Convention.

The patent administrators propose in Article 5(2) that the software per
se must also be patentable (even when the innovation is not in the
software but in the chemical process).

Moreover, in order to distinguish material processes from software, it
is necessary to define the \"technical invention\" as a \"solution to a
problem by use of controllable forces of nature\" or similar, as the
Parliament did. The Council Working Party has proposed to delete all
such definitions.

According to the Council working party, any software that makes
something faster or more efficient has a \"technical effect\" and is
thereby said to be \"not software as such\". In other words, any useful
software is patentable, and the claim can be directed to the software as
such (Art 5(2)).

## Who is advocating the directive, who is opposing it? {#who_is_advocating_the_directive_who_is_opposing_it}

The European Parliament has proposed an amended directive which is
currently under discussion.

The Parliament\'s directive proposal is supported by FFII and by most
software developpers and software companies, including large European
software companies.

It is opposed by the the forces that govern the European Patent Office:
national patent administrators (sitting on the EPO\'s administrative
Council and in the EU Council\'s patent policy working group) and
corporate patent lawyers (sitting on the EPO\'s Standing Advisory
Committee and in the Intellectual Property Committees of large industry
associations).

The patent lobby wants to kill this directive.

## On what grounds are you alleging that the Council Working Group wants to kill the directive project? {#on_what_grounds_are_you_alleging_that_the_council_working_group_wants_to_kill_the_directive_project}

The Patent working group in the council has rejected all limiting
amendments from the European Parliament and refused to address the
issues raised by the Parliament. They have added new amendments that
worsen the Commission\'s original proposal and close all doors for
possible compromise. E.g.

-   -   they have inserted Art 5(2), which firmly entrenches claims to
        \"a program, characterised by \...\" (program claims) in the
        system, thereby clarifying that [of](classes "wikilink")
        programs can form the object of a patent application.
    -   They have inserted a phrase in recital 17 which says that in
        order to secure interoperability the only allowable recourse is
        through antitrust procedings.

see

-   <http://swpat.ffii.org/papers/europarl0309/cons0401/>

One day before the Parliament\'s vote, Commissioner
[Bolkestein](http://swpat.ffii.org/players/bolkestein/ "wikilink")
threatened to withdraw the directive project and pursue
\"harmonisation\" without the European Parliament.

The corporate patent lawyers speaking in the name of the \"ICT
industry\" say in their statements that they would rather have no
directive at all than one that limits patentability as proposed by the
Parliament.

## Why does the patent lobby want to kill this directive? {#why_does_the_patent_lobby_want_to_kill_this_directive}

Because they do not want to discuss the problems that were raised by the
European Parliament. Their power is based on consensus within their
group. This would be endangered if discussions about policy choices were
allowed to begin.

They thought they could get the Parliament to simply rubberstamp their
proposal, so as to whitewash their illegal practise of granting software
patents, but then they found that this didn\'t work.

## What will the patent lobby do after they have killed the directive project? {#what_will_the_patent_lobby_do_after_they_have_killed_the_directive_project}

They will try to rewrite Art 52 of the European Patent Convention.

Proposals for this have already been circulated by the UK Patent Office.

## Can they really manage to secure a majority for deleting \"programs for computers\" from Art 52 EPC ? {#can_they_really_manage_to_secure_a_majority_for_deleting_programs_for_computers_from_art_52_epc}

Perhaps not. But they could try to dilute Art 52 EPC by throwing in some
goobledygook from the current EPO guidelines, see the UKPO proposal.

And they might find it easier to secure the agreement of governments in
the European Patent Organisation than to secure the agreement of the
European Parliament.

If this fails, they can also go on granting software patents without a
legal basis and hope to get national courts to adopt their goobledygook.

## What role is Microsoft playing in the Irish Presidency\'s plans? {#what_role_is_microsoft_playing_in_the_irish_presidencys_plans}

Microsoft has recently embarked on an aggressive patenting and patent
licensing strategy and is involved in lobbying for the software patent
directive.

<http://swpat.ffii.org/players/microsoft/>

Microsoft is also a sponsor of the Irish presidency and more closely
connected to the Irish government than to some others in Europe.

<http://swpat.ffii.org/players/ie/>

However there is little doubt that the patent office administrators in
the Council Patent Working Party are not driven by Microsoft lobbying
but by their own community\'s ideology and interests, expressed in the
holy writs of the European Patent Office. They would do the same thing
even if Microsoft was against it. They welcome support from anyone, but
they are also confident that they are in charge even without any such
support. This is their turf (hereditary domain of political property),
and the idea that anybody else could have a say in it is beyond their
imagination. In fact they are used to ignore even the written
instructions from their ministers.
