1.  1.  -\*- dok: demo050217; lang: en; coding: iso-8859-1; mode:
        fundamental; -\*-
    2.  datum: 2005-02-17

# Software Patent Demonstration and Press Conference Today {#software_patent_demonstration_and_press_conference_today}

-\> \[ [ deutsch](Demo050217De "wikilink") \] \[ [FFII Demo
Site](http://demo.ffii.org/demo0502/ "wikilink") \|
[Planning](http://mm.ffii.org/Demo050217En "wikilink") \| [ Message to
Commission](LtrFfiiCec050217En "wikilink") \| [ Message to
Council](LtrFfiiCons050217En "wikilink") \| [ EP Decides
Restart](Restart050217En "wikilink") \| [ Press
Conference](Pres050217En "wikilink") \| [Photo
Gallery](http://gallery.dhcp42.de/Bxl0502 "wikilink") \| [
Bundestag](Bundestag050217En "wikilink") \| [ Patent
News](SwpatcninoEn "wikilink") \]

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Brussels, 17th February. \-- Today, important decisions on the software
patent directive are taking place in Brussels. The European
Parliament\'s Conference of Presidents will decide whether the procedure
will be restarted. From all over Europe, software developers and company
representatives will join forces today to demonstrate against software
patents and against the undemocratic manoevering of the Commission and
Council. This will be followed by a Press Conference.*

## Demonstration 10.00-11.00 {#demonstration_10.00_11.00}

The demonstrators will hand over a package of bananas and a letter to
the Commission and to the Council, one for each. The letters can be
found at

-   [Message to the
    Commission](http://wiki.ffii.org/LtrFfiiCec050217En "wikilink")
-   [Message to the Council
    Presidency](http://wiki.ffii.org/LtrFfiiCons050217En "wikilink")

## Conference of Presidents 11.00-12.00 {#conference_of_presidents_11.00_12.00}

At 11.00 the European Parliament\'s Conference of Presidents will deal
with the motion of the Legal Affairs Committee and ask the European
Commission for a renewed referral of the directive to the Parliament. It
is not certain that the Conference of Presidents will follow the [vote
of the Legal Affairs
Committee](http://wiki.ffii.org/Restart050202En "wikilink").

Certain forces within the Parliament are trying to interpret the rules
in a way that reduces the rights of the Parliament and its members as
far as possible. The Tabling Office did not want the Conference of
Presidents to even discuss the JURI motion. That they are discussing it
nonetheless is due to an initiative of the Green Group.

## Press Lunch and Conference {#press_lunch_and_conference}

After the meeting of the Conference of Presidents, there will be Press
Conference in Hotel Renaissance, Rue de Parnasse 19, Brussels (near the
EU parliament). For journalists, a lunch is planned at this location,
around 12:30. The press conference will begin at 13:30. Among the guests
are MEP Jerzy Buzek (prime minister of Poland 1997-2001 and leading
initiator of the restart motion), French Green MEP Alain Liepitz and
Arda Gerkens, the originator of the recent motion in the Dutch
Parliament.

Members of the Commission, Council and Parliament as well as journalists
are cordially invited.

## Bundestag 22.00 {#bundestag_22.00}

In the evening, there will be a discussion in the German Federal
Parliament (Bundestag) about software patents. The Bundestag is expected
to adopt a cross-partisan motion which criticises the Council\'s
approach and backs the position of the European Parliament. FFII has
published a letter to members of the Parliament that asks for further
followup action

`   `[`http://wiki.ffii.org/LtrFfiiMdb0502De`](http://wiki.ffii.org/LtrFfiiMdb0502De)

to ensure that this motion has an effect.

## Other Recent Developments {#other_recent_developments}

-   2005-02-16 PL [ Thank Poland Ceremony in Polish
    Parliament](Sejm050216En "wikilink")
-   2005-02-15 EU [CCIA: EU Patent Proposal Comes at a Cost of
    Innovation and
    Competition](http://ccianet.org/modules.php?op=modload&name=News&file=article&sid=584&mode=thread&order=0&thold=0 "wikilink")
    ([CCIA
    members](http://ccianet.org/modules.php?op=modload&name=Members_List&file=index "wikilink"))
-   2005-02-10 NL [ FFII: Dutch Parliament adopts motion to block
    software patents A-item](NlVot050210En "wikilink")
-   2005-02-15 DK [ Microsoft: Give us Software Patents or we Move 800
    Jobs Out of Denmark](Navision050215En "wikilink")

## Contacts

-   Hartmut Pilch, phm\@ffii.org, +49-89-18979927
    (German/English/French)
-   Jonas Maebe, jmaebe\@ffii.org, +32-485-36-96-45 (Dutch/English)
-   Benjamin Henrion, bhenrion\@ffii.org, +32-498-292771
    (French/English)
-   Dieter Van Uytvanck, dietvu\@ffii org, +32-499-16-70-10 or
    +31-6-275-879-10 (Dutch/English)
-   Erik Josefsson, erjos\@ffii.org, +46-707-696567 or +32-485-83-21-26
    (Swedish/English)
-   Roman Muñoz, tatel\@infonegocio.com +34-943341472 (Spanish)

# About FFII \-- <http://www.ffii.org> {#about_ffii____httpwww.ffii.org}

The Foundation for a Free Information Infrastructure (FFII) is a
non-profit association registered in several European countries, which
is dedicated to the spread of data processing literacy. FFII supports
the development of public information goods based on copyright, free
competition, open standards. More than 500 members, 1,200 companies and
75,000 supporters have entrusted the FFII to act as their voice in
public policy questions concerning exclusion rights (intellectual
property) in data processing.
