# How To Use [SMEs](SMEs "wikilink") {#how_to_use_smes}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The defeated proponents of software patentability of July 2005 use today
another strategy aiming at pretending to represent fully
[SMEs](SMEs "wikilink") of the ICT sector.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### July 2005 {#july_2005}

On 6 July 2005, the European Parliament solemnly and massively rejected
Commission\'s proposal directive on \"Computer-Implemented Inventions\"
the 6th of July 2005, thanks to FFII lobbying campaign called \"Economic
Majority Against Software Patents\". The success of this lobbying
campaign relied mostly on [SMEs](SMEs "wikilink"). The main argument of
FFII was that [SMEs](SMEs "wikilink")  the backbone of European economy
 truly opposed software patentability. Thus, the failure of the
software patentability proponents was mainly to forget these major
actors  lobbying the European Institutions on behalf of big companies
holding numerous software patents such as Nokia or Philips.

[Economic Majority Against Software
Patents](http://www.economic-majority.com/ "wikilink")

### July 2006 {#july_2006}

One year later, the proponents of software patentability seem now to
have understood their failure for they are actually pretend to represent
European [SMEs](SMEs "wikilink") of the ICT sector. Since June 2006, in
views of the public hearing on the future patent policy organized by
the European Commission on 12 July, they have triggered a silent SME
campaign for software patents. All stakeholders  companies, interest
groups, institutions  seem to participate in this vast lobbying
offensive. Why targeting [SMEs](SMEs "wikilink")? To gain
representativity, that is legitimacy toward EU institutions especially
the European Parliament.

-   Companies such as Microsoft with [SMEday](SMEday "wikilink")

Brussels, Belgium, 6 June 2006.

It is clear that the European ICT sector is composed in great majority
of [SMEs](SMEs "wikilink") recognised as the growth engine of the
European economy: there are around 22 million [SMEs](SMEs "wikilink") in
Europe, employing close to 120 million people and contributing 57 per
cent to Europe\'s GDP. That\'s why Microsoft generously offered to
bring together European business innovators, venture capitalists,
entrepreneurs and governments to provide a \"360-degree view of how
[SMEs](SMEs "wikilink") can drive innovation and growth in Europe\". Of
course, it might appear paradoxical that giant Microsoft organized such
an event dedicated to [SMEs](SMEs "wikilink") and innovation, especially
knowing that last year the same Microsoft was \"actively\" supporting
the CII directive threatening EU software [SMEs](SMEs "wikilink"). You
say astroturf? Quite probable. And we were not surprised to hear through
the conferences such proposals as importing Ireland capitalistic model
all over Europe, creating more partnership between majors and
[SMEs](SMEs "wikilink") and of course improving \"today\'s disastrous IP
system in EU\".

[SMEday website](http://www.smeday.eu/home/ "wikilink")

-   EU institution such as the European Commission

Brussels, Belgium, 3 July 2006.

The European Commission published on-line the preliminary findings of
the public consultation on the future of European patent policy. Not
only this short synthesis included an unintended SME panel of 664
enterprises having interests with a future European patent system and
but it excluded also more than one thousand of FFII standard replies
from the analysis. The aim was to bring more representativity and
legitimacy to this European Commission initiative because
[SMEs](SMEs "wikilink") constitute the backbone of the European
economy.

[Preliminary
findings](http://wiki.ffii.org/PreliminaryFindings060703En "wikilink")

-   Interest group such as CompTIA with its manifesto SMEs patent
    reform

Brussels, Belgium, 12 July 2006.

CompTIA (Computing Technology Industry Association), an ICT interest
group notorious for his support to the Campaign for Creativity, edited
a manifesto called SME Patent Reform the 12 July 2006, that is the
very day of the Public Hearing. The day before, the SME-Union in
cooperation with the same interest group organized a working lunch on
EU patents and [SMEs](SMEs "wikilink"): The Road ahead? which took
place on July 11th from in the European Parliament. The strategy is
clear. These events and publications aim at creating the feeling that
[SMEs](SMEs "wikilink") support the European Commission initiatives.

[CompTIA060712](http://wiki.ffii.org/PatHearingTranscripts060712En "wikilink")

-   European institution such as the European Patent Office (EPO)

Brussels, Belgium, 12 July 2006.

Professor Alain Pompidou, president of the European Patent Office, said
in his closing speech of the public hearing on 12 July 2006, that
[SMEs](SMEs "wikilink") are the principal applicants at the EPO. In
2005, of the 34 200 applicants who filed in, nine out of ten would be
\"small applicants\"  chiefly [SMEs](SMEs "wikilink")  filing between
one and five applications per year. That is to say, EPO is the
trustworthy friend of [SMEs](SMEs "wikilink").

« \[\] Et parmi les 34 200 déposants enregistrés à loffice européen
des brevets en 2005, 90%, 90%, les 9/10 étaient des petits déposants,
principalement des petites et moyennes entreprises, des organismes de
recherche académiques, professionnels ou institutionnels déposant entre
1 et 5 demandes de brevets par an. Voilà les statistiques. De quel
domaine technologique relève ces demandes ? 11% seulement relevaient des
secteurs des TIC. 9/10 demandes relevaient du secteur technologique en
général, tels que lélectronique, lautomatisation, les besoins de la
vie quotidienne, la chimie ou loptique. Ces chiffres mamènent à
insister sur le point suivant. Lécrasante majorité des utilisateurs du
système des brevets européen sont des petits déposants, dans des
domaines technologiques, disons « non-controversés », à de très rares
exceptions prêts, ce ne sont pas des demandes qui font la une des
journaux ».

[Full
version](http://wiki.ffii.org/PatHearingTranscripts060712En "wikilink")

[English
version](http://www.european-patent-office.org/news/pressrel/2006_07_12_e.htm "wikilink")

\"What do I mean when I refer to \"innovative businesses\"? Who are
they? One yardstick is that most of them file patent applications. At
the European Patent Office, of the 34 200 applicants who filed in 2005,
nine out of ten were \"small applicants\"  chiefly
[SMEs](SMEs "wikilink")  filing between one and five applications per
year. In which fields of technology do these \"small applicants\" file
their applications? Of the applications filed in 2005 by \"small
applicants\" Only 11% related to Information and Communication
Technologies (the \"ICT\" sector) Nine applications out of ten related
to general fields of technology such as electronics, automation, human
necessities, chemistry or optics\".

-   However, pretend representing [SMEs](SMEs "wikilink") is not the
    same as truly and effectively representing [SMEs](SMEs "wikilink").
    ICT Task Force excludes [SMEs](SMEs "wikilink").

Brussels, London, Berlin, Warsaw, Ljubljana, 4th July 2006

In an open letter to the EU Commission, six small business associations
called on Commissioners Verheugen and Reding to modify their plans for
the ICT Task Force, designed \"to define the future EU policy in ICT\".

Assuming that the Commission\'s goals are to generate useful discussion
of its IT policies, FFII proposes that the European Commission work
together with our organisations to represent the ICT
[SMEs](SMEs "wikilink") into the policy process. Actually, 80% of the IT
sector is constituted by [SMEs](SMEs "wikilink"). That\'s why FFII
formally requested that the European Commission complete the missing
economic majority of its work by ensuring that this Task Force
adequately represents the bulk of the IT industry.

Understanding that it is easier to group together a few large firms,
than to group the hundreds of thousands of [SMEs](SMEs "wikilink") which
form the mass of the European information economy, FFII proposed that
the Commission work together with us to bring this silent majority into
the process.

Pieter Hintjens, President of FFII, said: \"The idea that we can create
EU-wide policy and legislation without input from a broad base has been
discredited. The EU must become more inclusive and less elitist if it is
to survive the challenges of public opinion in the decades ahead. We are
giving the Commission the opportunity to work with the majority now,
rather than face mass opposition later when it presents yet one more set
of special-interest proposals that damage the market.

[The Open
Letter](http://wiki.ffii.org/IctTaskForceOpenLetter060703En "wikilink")

[The Commission webpage of the ICT Task
Force](http://ec.europa.eu/enterprise/ict/taskforce.htm "wikilink")

[FFII wiki page about the ICT
[TaskForce](TaskForce "wikilink")](http://wiki.ffii.org/IctTaskForceEn "wikilink")

[This Press
Release](http://wiki.ffii.org/IctTaskForcePressRelease060704En "wikilink")
