# IP Enforcement Directive 2: European Community goes criminal {#ip_enforcement_directive_2_european_community_goes_criminal}

-\> \[ [ EC turns developers into
criminals](Ipred2Pr060512En "wikilink") \| [
[IPRED2](IPRED2 "wikilink")](Ipred2En "wikilink") \| [EP Procedural
page](http://www.europarl.europa.eu/oeil/file.jsp?id=5263692 "wikilink")
\| [ News](SwpatcninoEn "wikilink") \]

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Analysis of the IP Enforcement Directive text (IPRED2) proposed by the
European Commission on 2 May 2006. The Commission bulldozes through
criminal law, completely mixes up infringement and organised crime and
at the same time manages to exceed its legislative competence.*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Overview

The original (and also quite controversial) [IP Enforcement
Directive](http://www.fipr.org/copyright/draft-ipr-enforce.html "wikilink")
(IPRED1) was
[approved](http://www.edri.org/edrigram/number2.5/IPRE "wikilink") in
2004. It introduced various new measures available to right holders in
case of IP infringements. All of them were however limited to civil law.

In
[IPRED2](http://register.consilium.europa.eu/pdf/en/06/st08/st08866.en06.pdf "wikilink"),
the Commission proposes to add criminal sanctions for all IP
infringements. As we demonstrate below,

-   criminal law is unsuited to be applied as blanket measure for all IP
    infringements
-   the proposal would outlaw large parts of our knowledge economy
-   the Commission is exceeding its legislative competence

We will first discuss the claimed goals of the proposal, followed by six
core issues with the presented text:

1.  Misdirected measures
2.  Sign of powerlessness by the Commission
3.  No harmonisation
4.  Justifications don\'t match the contents
5.  \"Intentional\" and \"commercial\" are meaningless
6.  No demonstration of legal basis, mingling in member state affairs

Afterwards, we present our conclusion and wrap up with links to
background information.

# The claimed goals of the proposal {#the_claimed_goals_of_the_proposal}

The Commission claims that IP infringements threaten national economies
and governments, threaten public safety and health, and are increasingly
linked to organised crime. It also claims that the implementations of
!TRIPs requirements concerning criminal sanctions differ too much among
member states. Therefore, it proposes to

-   make all commercial scale, intentional IP infringements a criminal
    offence in the member states, regardless of whether they are linked
    to organised crime or not. The same goes for attempting, aiding or
    abetting and inciting such infringements;
-   lay down minimal maximum penalties for such infringements;
-   require that private agents of right holders are allowed to
    participate in international investigations related to such
    infringements.

The proposal is unfortunately flawed from top to bottom, including in
terms of the legal basis, justifications and proposed measures.

# Flaws

## 1. Misdirected measures {#misdirected_measures}

Counterfeiting and large scale copyright infringement by criminal
organisations are a real problem. That is why the !TRIPs agreement,
which is signed by all EU member states, requires criminal sanctions for
these infringements.

The Commission now wants to extend these measures to all IP
infringements. It may sound like a bold step to reinforce the
controversial \"Intellectual property shall be protected\" statement
from the proposed Constitutional Treaty, but turns out to be quite
misguided:

-   A number of IP infringements are routine in common business
    practice. For example, all companies ignore software patents to some
    extent, simply because every single useful program you write
    infringes on several patents.
-   The previous point results in weakening of criminal law and our
    justice system in general by turning so many people and businesses
    into supposed \"common criminals\".
-   IP infringements are almost never clear-cut. Patents go to trial and
    the outcome can be any combination of the fact that the patent was
    valid or not and that it was infringed or not. Copyright cases can
    be quite hard to decide (The Da Vinci Code), the same goes for
    trademarks ([Microsoft vs
    [MikeRoweSoft](MikeRoweSoft "wikilink")](http://news.com.com/2100-1014_3-5143614.html "wikilink")).
-   Law enforcement officials are usually unaware of licensing contracts
    among involved parties, even if such contracts are public (which
    they usually aren\'t). It is none of their business who licenses
    what to whom and why, so you get situations where e.g. a [UK Trading
    Standards official cannot believe that companies can resell the
    freely downloadable Firefox web
    browser](http://business.timesonline.co.uk/article/0,,9075-2051196,00.html "wikilink").
-   Criminal law by nature requires very clear boundaries. Not being
    able to know beforehand whether one commits a criminal offence or
    not is unacceptable both in terms of justice and human rights.
    Criminal law presupposes that one should know the law, but that is
    impossible in this case. See also Article 49.1 of the [proposed
    Constitutional
    Treaty](http://www.europarl.europa.eu/charter/default_en.htm "wikilink").

*\*Conclusion:\** Not all IP infringements are of criminal nature, and
therefore it does not make sense to criminalise each and every one of
them. The proposed text weakens criminal law because under its
definitions too many citizens and businesses doing nothing wrong are
supposedly criminals.

## 2. Sign of powerlessness by the Commission {#sign_of_powerlessness_by_the_commission}

The Commission claims it will harmonise the handling of IP infringements
in member states. All it does however is define a number of penalties
which judges must be able to impose (which, as an aside, happen to be
more severe than those for [counterfeiting the
Euro](http://europa.eu.int/comm/anti_fraud/reports/euro_cf/2001/euro_cf_2001_en.pdf "wikilink")).

At the same time, the investigation and prosecution policy (naturally)
remains under the authority of member states. And for IP, the current
rule is most of the time: civil law comes first, and criminal
enforcement of IP rights has a very low priority.

The reasons are:

-   The right holders themselves are usually more interested in
    compensation (civil law) than in punishment (criminal law). In fact,
    they usually want the infringement to continue as opposed to have it
    stopped (which would be the objective of criminal law), as long as
    they get paid for those actions.
-   Governments have better things to do with tax payer money than
    helping out Ferrari and music publishing associations.

*\*Conclusion:\** Criminal law is generally unsuited and therefore
mostly unused for IP infringements. The Commission can\'t change this
with a directive.

## 3. No harmonisation {#no_harmonisation}

The Commission extends the !TRIPs provision of criminal sanctions for
\"counterfeiting and copyright piracy\" to all \"commercial scale and
intentional\" IP infringements. The problems with this are that

-   The terms \"commercial scale\" and \"willful\" are not harmonised.
-   Some IP rights, such as the ones related to trademarks, are
    themselves not harmonised by the Commission\'s own admission.
-   Since the directive does not lay down any minimum penalties or
    prosecution priorities, the treatment of IP infringements in
    different member states can still differ as much as it does today.
-   It is well documented that \_\_if\_\_ criminals choose to operate in
    a particular country, this decision will be based on the chance of
    being caught. However, as mentioned in the previous point, the
    Commission cannot influence prosecution priorities.

*\*Conclusion:\** The Commission\'s \"harmonisation\" is based on
non-harmonised terms and even non-harmonised rights. Additionally, the
imposed measures do not force any particular harmonisation. A \"Common
Market for Crime\" which can be regulated by the Commission is still a
long way off.

## 4. Justifications don\'t match the contents {#justifications_dont_match_the_contents}

The Commission\'s justification is based on four arguments, but none of
them actually makes sense when compared to the contents of the
directive.

### Threats to national economies and governments {#threats_to_national_economies_and_governments}

Threats to governments probably refers to the ultimate argument if one
wants to get something approved without annoying questions: terrorism.
See below under \"organised crime\" for more about this, as the same
arguments apply.

Threats to national economies refers to the fact that a large part of
our economy is now knowledge-based, which a.o. involves the use of IP
rights. As explained earlier on however, criminal law is unsuited and
therefore barely used in this area. Additionally, many regular companies
would become criminals under the proposed measures.

### Threats to public safety and health {#threats_to_public_safety_and_health}

Regardless of whether generic medication infringes on a patent or not,
it will have to be approved by the European Agency for the Evaluation of
Medicinal Products (EMEA). Devices, tools, toys etc. also have to be
approved by a community agency before they can be sold.

If counterfeit products are sold under someone else\'s registered trade
name in order to evade such checks, then this action in itself is
already criminally sanctionable (since counterfeiting falls under the
!TRIPs provisions).

### Battling organised crime {#battling_organised_crime}

Financing means such as drugs trade, weapon and human trafficking,
counterfeiting, extortion etc. are already illegal and part of criminal
law.

This directive adds rights such as [patents, plant variety rights, sui
generis right of a database maker,
etc](http://europa.eu.int/eur-lex/lex/LexUriServ/site/en/oj/2005/l_094/l_09420050413en00370037.pdf "wikilink"),
but these have little or nothing to do with the way these organisations
finance themselves.

### Implementing the \"Intellectual property shall be protected\" statement from the proposed Constitutional Treaty {#implementing_the_intellectual_property_shall_be_protected_statement_from_the_proposed_constitutional_treaty}

It is unfortunate that the Commission keeps hammering this controversial
statement as much as possible. Its unconditional nature makes unique in
the world. For example, the US Constitution states that such rights
should only be protected to the extent that they \"promote science and
the useful arts\". It should always be kept in mind that IP rights are a
means to an end, and not an end in themselves which should be protected
for their own sake.

Sometimes this provision is confused with the human right to property.
That provision however merely means that once recognised, a property
right cannot be arbitrarily taken away (without compensation). It does
not mandate that everything which people call their own should be
recognised as property.

*\*Conclusion:\** The Commission\'s arguments regarding organised crime
and threats to public safety don\'t stand up to even elementary
scrutiny. This endangers popular and political support for other
measures aimed at ensuring public safety and combatting terrorism. One
can cry wolf only so many times.

## 5. \"Intentional\" and \"commercial scale\" are meaningless {#intentional_and_commercial_scale_are_meaningless}

In criminal law, \"willful\" does not necessarily mean one is aware that
(s)he is committing a crime. It often simply means that one is
performing the action (which happens to be criminal) not accidentally,
but consciously. I.e., one cannot accidentally write or sell software,
this always happens consciously. Consequently, every software patent
infringed by such software could easily be deemed to be intentional,
regardless of knowledge about said patents by the author(s).

\"Commercial scale\" is sometimes interpreted as \"depriving someone of
potential income\". So, even not-for-profit activities can be considered
to be commercial scale. In other cases, infringement is always
commercial. For example, patents are free for private use, and
trademarks are only protected in the context of commercial conduct.

*\*Conclusion:\** The requirements that the infringement be
\"intentional\" and \"commercial scale\" are no real limitations due to
their particular meaning in criminal law.

## 6. No demonstration of legal basis, mingling in member state affairs {#no_demonstration_of_legal_basis_mingling_in_member_state_affairs}

The Commission is proposing this directive based on Art 95 of the
Treaty, i.e. under codecision. This means that the European Parliament
can co-legislate, and that the Council can decide with a qualified
majority (as opposed to unanimity) if the Commission agrees with its
standpoint.

Art 95 of the Treaty can only be invoked if without harmonisation, a
distortion in trade between Member States can occur. Apart from the fact
that this proposal does not harmonise anything, the Commission has not
even attempted to demonstrate any distortions in trade resulting from
differences in criminal enforcement of IP rights. See also the remarks
of [Professor Hilty](http://www.ipred.org/Hilty "wikilink") and [ Dutch
Minister of Justice Donner](IpredDonner060428En "wikilink").

Additionally, this is the first time that the Commission is trying to
legislate criminal law without the member states having a veto right.
Several member states are not amused by this fact, and dispute the
Commission\'s right to do so. The [Commission\'s
message](http://www.eupolitix.com/EN/News/200605/f22b375f-238f-4313-b4be-e9b65a18397c.htm "wikilink")
that we must hurry to implement such measures \"before the next
terrorist attack\" is disappointingly populist in nature.

*\*Conclusion:\** The Commission is alienating member states and the
European population from the European project by attempting to interfere
in matters over which it has no authority, and by trying to push
everything through in the name of \"the battle against terrorism\".

# Overall conclusion {#overall_conclusion}

With this proposal, the Commission is exceeding its competence both in
terms of legislative power and in terms of appreciating the finesses of
criminal law. It justifies its proposal with superficial, populist
arguments and only seems to be interested in flexing its muscle:
demonstrate to member states that it can legislate criminal law via the
codecision procedure.

The Commission is playing a dangerous game here which at the same time
threatens to undermine respect and support for

-   IP rights
-   the European Union project
-   the Constitutional Treaty project
-   the battle against organised crime and terrorism

We therefore urge the Commission to retract this ill-conceived
directive.

## More information {#more_information}

-   Text of the directive proposal:
    -   -   [English](http://register.consilium.europa.eu/pdf/en/06/st08/st08866.en06.pdf "wikilink")
        -   [French](http://register.consilium.europa.eu/pdf/fr/06/st08/st08866.fr06.pdf "wikilink")
        -   [German](http://register.consilium.europa.eu/pdf/de/06/st08/st08866.de06.pdf "wikilink")

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [EDRI: EU moves to criminalise IP
    offences](http://www.edri.org/edrigram/number4.9/ipcriminal "wikilink")

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [Ipred.org analysis](http://www.ipred.org/analysis "wikilink")

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [ [IPRED2](IPRED2 "wikilink") information collection
    page](Ipred2En "wikilink")

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [EP Procedural
    Page](http://www.europarl.europa.eu/oeil/file.jsp?id=5263692 "wikilink")

## Acknowledgements

We would like to thank Reinier Bakels for his insightful input.
