1.  1.  -\*- dok: lxnmaward04; lang: en; coding: iso-8859-1; mode:
        fundamental; -\*-

# 2004-10-27 DE FFII wins Linux New Media Award 2004 {#de_ffii_wins_linux_new_media_award_2004}

\--\> \[ [ deutsch](Lxnmaward04De "wikilink") \] \[ [
News](SwpatcninoEn "wikilink") \]

------------------------------------------------------------------------

This year again a committee of 160 jurors, among them leading
personalities of the Linux world, [voted on the Linux New Media
Award](http://www.linuxnewmedia.de/Award_2004/en "wikilink").

In the category \"SPECIAL AWARD - for outstanding promotion of Linux and
Open Source\", \"Eurolinux/FFII\" was chosen as Nr. 1 among many
prominent candidates, including Creative Commons,
[Groklaw](http://www.groklaw.org/ "wikilink"), the Government of Brazil
and [Free Software Foundation
Europe](http://www.fsfeurope.org/ "wikilink").

The prize awarding ceremony was conducted at Linux World Expo as part of
the Exhibitor\'s Evening (wednesday 2004-10-27 18.30 Uhr, Hall 4.0, room
\"Europa\"). [ Arnim Rupp](ArnimRuppEn "wikilink") received the prize on
behalf of FFII.

-   [Pictures from the
    Ceremony](http://ffii.org/img/fotos/lxnm04/ "wikilink") (Arnim as
    speaker with Linuz-Magazin editor Ulrich Wolf and other
    participants)

Arnim explained in a short thanks speech that FFII has not done much to
\"promote Linux and Open Source\", but we have helped maintain and
promote a regulative framework in which the free software world has a
fair chance to prosper. Arnim summarised how the (free and proprietary)
software community won a series of uphill battles against the patent
community and encouraged the audience to continue to fight hard to
remove the latter\'s grip of the EU Council. Although individual efforts
were the key to success, the struggle also required some community
effort with an increasing organisational and financial burden, which
FFII had been shouldering and whereby it had been dramatically growing.
Arnim described the efforts and the growth and called on the audience
for support.

See full speech in [ german version](Lxnmaward04De "wikilink").
