1.  1.  -\*- dok: [McCreevy050704](McCreevy050704 "wikilink"); lang: en;
        coding: iso-8859-1; mode: fundamental; -\*-

# [McCreevy](McCreevy "wikilink"): rejection of software patents motivated by anti-globalism, anti-americanism {#mccreevy_rejection_of_software_patents_motivated_by_anti_globalism_anti_americanism}

-\> \[ [ Parliamentary Magazine](Parlmag050704En "wikilink") \| [
[McCreevy](McCreevy "wikilink")](CharlieMcCreevyEn "wikilink") \| [
Patent News](SwpatcninoEn "wikilink") \]

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*In an Interview, published on the same day of the second reading in the
European Parliament, commissioner Charles* !McCreevy *shows what he
thinks about the opposition to software patents. This goes far beyond
normal politic rhetorics.*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The interview is published
[here](http://www.eupolitix.com/EN/News/200507/5d049d10-690a-4977-b116-4295c1a42937.htm "wikilink").

Some quotes from this interview:

\|\| A row over software patents is linked to bitter opposition over EU
economic liberalisation and to broader anti-free market sentiment, the
European Commissioner for the Internal Market has said. \|\|

It might seem strange that extension of state-granted monopolies is
portrayed here as an example of \"EU economic liberlisation\" and \"free
market\".

\|\"The theme, or the background music, to both of these particular
directives you could see as part of, anti-globalisation,
anti-Americanism, anti-big business protests \-\-- in lots of senses,
anti-the opening up of markets,\" he told this website.\|

Companies like !MySQL, !RedHat, Sun and [thousands of
others](http://www.economic-majority.com "wikilink") hardly match the
anti-attributes claimed by Mr. !McCreevy. Anti-globalist rhetoric is
nowadays more frequently heard from the pro-patent lobby, which has been
claiming that it needs patents to protect Europe from the Yellow Peril,
see e.g. [ Sennheiser](Sennheiser05En "wikilink") or [ Langen
PR](Evpkmu070505En "wikilink"). The latter labelled the software patent
critics as \"lackeys of Asia and America\".

\|The commissioner will not allow the European Parliament to rewrite the
CII \-\-- amendments will be voted on this Wednesday.\| \|\"What I\'ve
said all along is we\'re not going to allow a situation to develop
whereby with amendments and changes we end up doing exactly the opposite
of what this particular directive set out to do. That I have made
clear,\" he said.\| \|\"I have also made clear is that if the parliament
was to reject the directive then I would not be putting another proposal
on the table. That remains my position.\"\|

To sum it up: This directive is not about \"harmonisation and
clarification\" but about codifying unlimited patentability, according
to doctrines developped by the European Patent Office in conjunction
with this directive project in the late 1990s. If that aim, as outlined
by the Commission and Council, is not achieved, the Commission prefers
to have no \"harmonisation and clarification\" at all.
