# The public hearing on the future patent policy in Europe (Brussels, 12 July 2006) {#the_public_hearing_on_the_future_patent_policy_in_europe_brussels_12_july_2006}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Here is the draft agenda of the public hearing on the future patent
policy in Europe to be held on the 12th July 2006. The European
Commission (EC) will first present a document outlining the preliminary
findings of the consultation based on replies received until 12 April
2006. Then, the Internal Market DG will directly consult stakeholders on
their needs in relation to the legal framework and possible actions in
the field of industrial property. The EC 39 selected stakeholders are
supposed to \"represent the balance of opinion in the written replies
will speak on the issues raised\" during the hearing. As you will see,
patents proponents are mainly represented. There will also be time for
an \"open debate\" and a presentation from the president of the European
Patent Office (EPO), professor Alain Pompidou.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Location

European Commission, \"Charlemagne\" Room S3, Rue de la Loi 170,
Brussels

## Agenda

-   08:30 - 09:00 Registration

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   09:15 - 09:30 Opening by the Chairperson: Mrs Jacqueline MINOR,
    Director, Knowledge Based Economy, DG Internal Market and Services,
    European Commission; Welcome: Mr Thierry STOLL, Deputy Director
    General, DG Internal Market and Services, European Commission

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   09:30 - 09:55 Presentation: Findings of the consultation (DG
    Internal Market and Services)

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   09:55 - 10:10 Coffee Break

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   10:10 - 10:30
    -   -   Speech 1: Mr Giuseppe Gargani, President of the Legal
            Affairs Committee, European Parliament
        -   Speech 2: Professor Michal du Vall, Jagiellonian University
            of Cracow, Poland

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   10:30 - 12:50 Debate n° 1: Basic Principles of the patent system: 6
    interventions
    -   -   MEDEF (Mr Thierry Sueur)
        -   CARE FOR EUROPE (Mr David Fieldsend)
        -   ACT (Mr Jonathan Zuck)
        -   CEFIC (Mr Mike Barlow)
        -   FFII (Mr Pieter Hintjens)
        -   [ProTon](ProTon "wikilink") (Mr Gilles Capart)
        -   Summary by the Chair

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   Debate n°2 Harmonisation and MR: 6 interventions
    -   -   LEEM / Sanofi-Aventis (Mme Elisabethlisabeth
            Thouret-Lemaître)
        -   Volvo (Mr Werner Frohling)
        -   Bosch (Mr Bertram Huber)
        -   Qualcomm (Mr George Whitten)
        -   Romania NPO (Mr Alexandru Cristian Strencc)
        -   GRUR (Mr Frank-Erich Hufnagel)
        -   Summary by the Chair

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   Debate n° 3 Community Patent: 12 interventions
    -   -   UEAPME (Ms Maria Cimaglia)
        -   EADS (Mr Michel Herouf)
        -   BDI (Mr Lothar Steiling)
        -   Fraunhofer Institute (Mr Helmut Schubert)
        -   BEUC (Ms Cornelia CKutterer)
        -   Perm. Repres. of Italy (Mr Pignatti)
        -   Perm. Repres. of France (Mr Fabiien Raynaud)
        -   PIMEC (Mr Marcelino Currel - Suñol)
        -   ICC Paris (Ms Catherine Druez - Marie)
        -   ECIS (Mr Thomas Vinje)
        -   Perm. Repres. of Belgium (Mr Patrick Herman)
        -   MERCK (Mr Charles Bouchard)
        -   Summary by the Chair

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   12:50 - 14:15 Lunch
-   14:15 - 14:35
    -   -   Speech 1: Ms Marja-Leena Rinkineva, Deputy Director General,
            Ministry of Trade and Industry, Finland, Finnish Presidency
        -   Speech 2: Mr Scordamaglia, Honorary President Director
            General of the Council of the European Union

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   14:35 - 15:55: Debate n°4 Jurisdiction: 15 interventions
    -   -   THOMSON (Mr Didier Huck)
        -   ICC UK (Mr Richard Fawcett)
        -   Eurochambers (Mr Pierre Simon)
        -   German Federal Patent Court (Mr Raimund Lutz)
        -   Patentanwalts (Mr Eugen Popp)
        -   ICT Ireland (Ms Hanah Grene)
        -   Nokia (Mr Tim Frain)
        -   BASF (on behalf of UNICE) (Mr Klaus-Dieter Langfinger)
        -   FICPI (Mr Daniel Alge)
        -   AIPPI (Mr Luis Alfonso Duran)
        -   FEMIPI (Mr Paul Georg Maué)
        -   Deutscher Anwaltverein (Ms Eva Schriever)
        -   Open Source Community (Mr Florian Müller)
        -   IIPTC (Mr Allen Dixon)
        -   C.E.A. (Mr Gustaaf Daemen)
        -   Summary by the Chair

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   15:55 - 16:10 Coffee Break
-   16:10 - 16:20 Speech by Professor Alain Pompidou, President of the
    European Patent Office
-   16:20 - 16:40 Presentation of preliminary results: Study on the
    \"Economic and Social Value of Patents within the European Union\"
    by Alfonso Gambardella University Bocconi, Milan, Italy, member of
    Fondazione C.E.R.M.
-   16:40 - 17:30 Open debate: interventions of no more than 3 minutes
    each
-   17:30 - 17:50 Speech by Commissioner [McCreevy](McCreevy "wikilink")
-   17:50 - 18:00 Summary of the Hearing by the Chair

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### On 39 speakers, about 29 are pro patents and only 4 oppose software patents and 1 oppose biotechnical patents. It remains 6 speakers whose opinion on the question is unknown. {#on_39_speakers_about_29_are_pro_patents_and_only_4_oppose_software_patents_and_1_oppose_biotechnical_patents._it_remains_6_speakers_whose_opinion_on_the_question_is_unknown.}

-   39 speakers

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   Pro patents in general: 3
    -   -   MEDEF (Thierry Sueur), Eurochambers (Mr Pierre Simon),
            FEMIPI (Paul Georg Maué)

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   Pro software patents: 22
    -   -   ACT (Jonathan Zuck), [ProTon](ProTon "wikilink") (Gilles
            Capart),Volvo (Werner Frohling), Bosch (Bertram Huber),
            Qualcomm (George Whitten), ? GRUR (Frank-Erich Hufnagel),
            EADS (Michel Herouf), BDI (Lothar Steiling), ? Fraunhofer
            Institute (Helmut Schubert), ? Perm. Repres. of France
            (Fabien Raynaud), ICC Paris (Catherine Druez - Marie), ECIS
            (Thomas Vinje), Thomson (Didier Huck), ICC UK (Richard
            Fawcett), German Federal Patent Court (Raimund Lutz), AIPPI
            (Luis  Alfonso Duran), FICPI (Mr Daniel Alge), Nokia (Tim
            Frain), ICT Ireland (Ms Hanah Grene), IIPTC (Allen Dixon)

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   Pro pharmaceutical patents: 2
    -   -   LEEM / Sanofi  Aventis (Elisabeth Thouret-Lemaître), MERCK
            (Charles Bouchard).

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   Pro patents on chemical applications: 2
    -   -   CEFIC (Mike Barlow), BASF (on behalf of UNICE)(Klaus-Dieter
            Langfinger)

\--

-   Against software patents: 3
    -   -   FFII (Pieter Hintjens), UEAPME (Maria Cimaglia), BEUC
            (Cornelia Kutterer), PIMEC (Marcelino Currel - Suñol), Open
            Source Community (Florian Mueller)

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   Against biotechnical patents: 1
    -   -   Care for Europe (David Fieldsend)

\--

-   Position unknown: 6
    -   -   Romania NPO (Alexandru Cristian Strencc), Perm. Repres. of
            Italy (Mr Pignatti), Perm. Repres. of Belgium (Patrick
            Herman), CEA (Gustaaf Daemen), Deutscher Anwaltverein (Eva
            Schriever), Patentanwalts (Eugen Popp)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

# Speakers

-   10:30  12:50 Debate n° 1: Basic Principles of the patent system: 6
    interventions

## 1. MEDEF (Mr Thierry Sueur) {#medef_mr_thierry_sueur}

### Pro patents in general {#pro_patents_in_general}

Thierry Sueur works for the MEDEF (Mouvement des entreprises de France),
a corporation gathering industrials and important firms in France. He is
the President of the Intellectual propriety Commitee. MEDEF is pro
software patents. Very close to INPI (Institut national de la propriété
intellectuelle), MEDEF has even published in 2004 a [\"Manifeste pour
les
brevets\"](http://www.medef.fr/staging/site/page.php?pag_id=23548 "wikilink"),
this manifest was included in appendices of MEDEF\'s answer to the
consultation . At the time, FFII has produced an [analysis of the
manifest](http://www.ffii.fr/brevets-medef-inpi "wikilink").

[MEDEF official
website](http://www.medef.fr/staging/site/page.php "wikilink")

## 2. CARE FOR EUROPE (Mr David Fieldsend) {#care_for_europe_mr_david_fieldsend}

### Against patents concerning biotechnology {#against_patents_concerning_biotechnology}

David Fieldsend is the Manager of CARE for Europe (Christian Action
Research & Education). Care for Europe is a UK group of interests
registered in Belgium as an AISBL and supported by churches &
individuals across Europe. Care for Europe works as a lobby rallying
support in favour of the Christian, pro-life and pro-family point of
view. Care for Europe opposes especially biotechnology patents.

[Care for Europe official
website](http://www.careforeurope.org/ "wikilink")

## 3. ACT (Mr Jonathan Zuck) {#act_mr_jonathan_zuck}

### Pro software patents {#pro_software_patents}

Jonathan Zuck works as President for the Association for Competitive
Technology, a Washington based lobbying proxy for Microsoft. Zuck also
took part the EU debate over the antitrust ruling against Microsoft as a
lobbying hitman and recently also got involved in software patents
lobbying.

[ FFII page on Jonathan Zuck](JonathanZuckEn "wikilink")

[ACT official website](http://www.actonline.org/ "wikilink")

## 4. CEFIC (Mr Mike Barlow) {#cefic_mr_mike_barlow}

### Pro patents on chemical applications {#pro_patents_on_chemical_applications}

Though Mike Barlow will represent the CEFIC (the European Chemical
Industry Council), he is also the President of the principal Industry IP
body in the UK, the Patents Committee of the Trade Marks, Patents and
Designs Federation. He is also a member of the UNICE IP Group. Mike
Barlow participated in the 2003 Royal Society study on the effect of IP
on science and is a member of the UK Governments Community Patent and
Litigation Focus Groups. He has lectured in both Europe and the USA on
IP issues.

[CEFIC official website](http://www.cefic.be/ "wikilink")

## 5. FFII (Mr Pieter Hintjens) {#ffii_mr_pieter_hintjens}

### Against software patents {#against_software_patents}

Pieter Hintjens is the CEO of iMatix Corporation, and the author of
numerous software tools published by iMatix. He is also the president of
the FFII, an information rights organisation based in Munich, with
chapters in 20 countries. FFII strongly opposed with success the
software patent directive from 2003 to 2005.

[FFII official website](http://www.ffii.org "wikilink")

## 6. [ProTon](ProTon "wikilink") (Mr Gilles Capart) {#proton_mr_gilles_capart}

### Pro software patents {#pro_software_patents_1}

Gilles Capart is the Président of Proton-Europe (Public Research
Organisation Transfer Office Network - Europe). He is doctor in physical
sciences in ULC and MBA professor at Boston University Knowledge
Transfer Offices (Proton Europe). Proton-Europe is the IT branch of
[Gate2Growth](Gate2Growth "wikilink") which is a pan-European Business
and innovation platform for IT business issues in general. Close to the
European (EC) Commission and to the European Patent Office (EPO),
[Gate2Growth](Gate2Growth "wikilink") sees software patents as a key
\"to protect innovation\".

[Gate2growth official
website](http://www.gate2growth.com/g2g/g2g_welcome.asp "wikilink")

-   Debate n°2 Harmonisation and MR: 6 interventions

## 1. LEEM / Sanofi  Aventis (Mme Elisabeth Thouret-Lemaître) {#leem_sanofi_aventis_mme_elisabeth_thouret_lemaître}

### Pro pharmaceutical patents {#pro_pharmaceutical_patents}

Elisabeth THOURET-LEMAITRE works for Sanofi-aventis, the French world
number four company in the pharmaceutical industry. She also represents
LEEM (LEs Entreprises du Médicament), a french lobby advocating for
biotechnology and pharmaceutical patents. She has also been mandated by
the European Patent Office (EPO).

[Sanofi-Aventis official
website](http://www.sanofi-aventis.com/ "wikilink")

[LEEM official
website](http://www.leem.org/accueil/index.asp?page=1024# "wikilink")

## 2. Volvo (Mr Werner Frohling) {#volvo_mr_werner_frohling}

### Pro software patents {#pro_software_patents_2}

Werner FRÖHLING is an European Patent Attorney and Volvo Technology
Corporation Head of Corporate Patents. Werner FRÖHLING is also close to
the World Intellectual Proprety Office (WIPO). Volvo supported the
Council position in September 2003 pro software patents through its
representative office in Brussels.

[Volvo official
website](http://www.volvo.com/group/global/engb/Volvo+Group/our+companies/volvotechnologycorpoaction/vtecabout/ "wikilink")

[See also the article written by Harmut Pilch \"Software Patent Loser
Volvo lobbying for Uncommon
Position\"](http://216.239.59.104/searchq=cache:Yg4k7QxfYEJ:lists.ffii.org/pipermail/news/2005March/000282.html+volvo+patent&hl=fr&gl=fr&ct=clnk&cd=1 "wikilink")

## 3. Bosch (Mr Bertram Huber) {#bosch_mr_bertram_huber}

### Pro software patents {#pro_software_patents_3}

Bertram Huber works in the Bosh Corporate intellectual property
department. Like Siemens and other large german corporations, Bosch
supported the CII directive from 2003 to 2005, thus opposing the srong
\"Mittelstand\" (the German term for [SMEs](SMEs "wikilink"))

[Bosch official
website](http://www.bosch.co.uk/content/language2/html/index.htm "wikilink")

## 4. Qualcomm (Mr George Whitten) {#qualcomm_mr_george_whitten}

### Pro software patents {#pro_software_patents_4}

George Whitten is a UK chartered patent attorney, a certified patent
litigator, and a European Patent Attorney. He has entered the patent
profession in 1986 from an electrical engineering background. In 1993 he
became a partner in a London-based IP firm where he specialized in
patent matters relating to image processing, telecommunications and
information technology. In 2000 he joined QUALCOMM Inc. to work on
European Oppositions and is now responsible for the preparation, filing,
and other formal aspects of QUALCOMMs international and foreign patent
applications. Recently, Qualcomm has been engaging a litigation against
Nokia for infringing six patents.

[Qualcomm official website](http://www.qualcomm.com/ "wikilink")

[See FFII software patent news from the 15th
June](http://wiki.ffii.org/admin.cgi?SwpatcninoEn "wikilink")

## 5. Romania NPO (Mr Alexandru Cristian Strencc) {#romania_npo_mr_alexandru_cristian_strencc}

### ?

Alexandru Cristian Strencc works for a Romania NPO / NGO.

## 6. GRUR (Mr Frank-Erich Hufnagel) {#grur_mr_frank_erich_hufnagel}

### Pro software patents {#pro_software_patents_5}

Frank-Erich Hufnagel has been a partner of Freshfields Bruckhaus
Deringer and works in the Düsseldorf office. Within the IP/IT group, he
is the responsible partner for patent litigation. He has built up the
patent litigation team in Düsseldorf and is representing a wide range of
national and international clients before the specialised patent courts
in Germany. He is member of a number of Intellectual Property bar
associations such as EPLAW, AIPLA and VPP and severs on the Patent Law
Committee of GRUR (Gewerblicher Rechtsschutz und Urheberrecht).
Frank-Erich is the author of numerous articles on IP related matters as
well as on multimedia.

[GRUR official
website](http://www.grur.de/cms/front_content.php "wikilink")

-   Debate n° 3 Community Patent: 12 interventions

## 1. UEAPME (Ms Maria Cimaglia) {#ueapme_ms_maria_cimaglia}

### Against software patents {#against_software_patents_1}

Maria Cimaglia is the legal affairs adviser of the UEAPME (European
Association of Craft Small and Medium-sized Entreprises), the
employer\'s organisation representing the interests of European crafts,
trades and [SMEs](SMEs "wikilink") at EU level. UEAPME is a recognised
European Social Partner. It is a non-profit seeking and non-partisan
organisation.The UEAPME strongly opposed the CII directive from 2003 to
2005 and directly supported Florian Mueller in his campaign
Nosoftwarepatents.

[See the UEAPME position papers concerning software patents
on](http://www.ueapme.com/EN/policy_legal_intellectual.shtml "wikilink")

## 2. EADS (Mr Michel Herouf) {#eads_mr_michel_herouf}

### Pro software patents {#pro_software_patents_6}

Michel Herouf works in the EADS Intellectual Proprety department. The
European Aeronautic Defence and Space Company EADS N.V. (EADS) is a
large European aerospace corporation, formed by the merger on July 10,
2000 of Aérospatiale-Matra of France, Construcciones Aeronáuticas SA
(CASA) of Spain, and [DaimlerChrysler](DaimlerChrysler "wikilink")
Aerospace AG (DASA) of Germany. The EPO has already delivered several
patents to EADS such as the EP1221250, a Method for setting up
communication between terminals connected to a switching system\...

[EADS official website](http://www.eads.com/ "wikilink")

## 3. BDI (Mr Lothar Steiling) {#bdi_mr_lothar_steiling}

### Pro software patents {#pro_software_patents_7}

The BDI (Bundesverband der Deutschen Industrieis) is the federation of
German industries, the equivalent of the MEDEF in France. Very close to
UNICE, the BDI is pro-patent. Lothar Steiling, Chief Patent Counsel
IP-Management, Bayer AG, working for the BDI said in one of [his
presentation](http://216.239.59.104/search?q=cache:ZL4m7MJ9F0QJ:www.aipla.org/Content/ContentGroups/Meetings_and_Events1/International_Symposia1/BDI2.pdf+BDI+%22Lothar+Steiling%22&hl=fr&gl=fr&ct=clnk&cd=2 "wikilink").

\"The BDI, of course, is in favor of a harmonized system \[\...\]. We
want a harmonized system, but we only can accept is as package
solution\"

[BDI official website](http://www.bdi-online.de/ "wikilink")

## 4. Fraunhofer Institute (Mr Helmut Schubert) {#fraunhofer_institute_mr_helmut_schubert}

### Pro software patents {#pro_software_patents_8}

Fraunhofer Institutes are branches of Fraunhofer Gesellschat. For
instance, the [Institut Algorithmen and Wissenschaftliches
Rechnen](http://www.scai.fraunhofer.de/ "wikilink") or the [Fraunhofer
Patentstelle für die deutsche
Forschung](http://www.pst.fraunhofer.de/ "wikilink") where Helmut
Schubert worked and which promotes software patents.

## 5. BEUC (Ms Cornelia Kutterer) {#beuc_ms_cornelia_kutterer}

### Against software patents {#against_software_patents_2}

Cornelia Kutterer is the Senior Legal Adviser of the BEUC (European
Consumer\'s Association), a NGO defending the consumer\'s rights. From
2003 to 2004, the BEUC called upon the European Parliament to vote for
real limits on software patentability. the BEUC called upon the European
Parliament to reinsert Article 9 of the Parliament resolution. BEUC
seriously opposes software patents.

[BEUC official
website](http://www.beuc.org/Content/Default.aspPageID=149&LanguageCode=EN "wikilink")

[See
also](http://www.softwarepatenten.be/doc/beuc.pdfBEUC+patent&hl=fr&gl=fr&ct=clnk&cd=1 "wikilink")

## 6. Perm. Repres. of Italy (Mr Pignatti) {#perm._repres._of_italy_mr_pignatti}

### ? {#section_1}

## 7. Perm. Repres. of France (Mr Fabien Raynaud) {#perm._repres._of_france_mr_fabien_raynaud}

### Pro software patents {#pro_software_patents_9}

Fabien Raynaud is the permanent representative of France and legal
affairs adviser in intellectual proprety. Fabien Raynaud seems to be pro
software patents.

[See the web
page](http://216.239.59.104/searchq=cache:ZXQlTSGcr4IJ:wiki.ffii.org/ConsFr050602Fr+brevets+Fabien+Raynaud&hl=fr&gl=fr&ct=clnk&cd=4 "wikilink")

## 8. PIMEC (Mr Marcelino Currel - Suñol) {#pimec_mr_marcelino_currel___suñol}

### Against software patents {#against_software_patents_3}

PIMEC (micro, petita i mitjana empresa de catalunya) is the spanish
voice of small and medium-sized entreprises. They may share the UEAPME
against software patents as well.

[PIMEC official
website](http://www.pimecsefes.com/webpimec/index.html "wikilink")

## 9. ICC Paris (Ms Catherine Druez - Marie) {#icc_paris_ms_catherine_druez___marie}

### Pro software patents {#pro_software_patents_10}

Catherine Druez-Marie is an intellectual proprety jurist working for the
ICC- Paris (International Chamber of Commerce) which is the voice of
world business championing the global economy as a force for economic
growth. The ICC\'s \"Intellectual Property Committee\", consisting of
240 corporate \"IP professionals\" from around the world, vigorously
defendeds the interests of the patent community in Europe. The ICC works
closely with intergovernmental and non-governmental organisations
involved in intellectual property policy, such as the World Intellectual
Property Organisation (WIPO), the World Trade Organisation (WTO), the
World Customs Organisation (WCO), the UN Economic Commission for Europe
(UNECE), the International Association for the Protection of Industrial
Property (AIPPI) and the Licensing Executive Society (LES).

[ICC official website](http://www.iccwbo.org/ "wikilink")

[See FFII web
page](http://216.239.59.104/searchq=cache:ZqgMVjXagMJ:swpat.ffii.org/gasnu/icc/index.en.html+ICC+patent&hl=fr&gl=fr&ct=lnk&cd=3 "wikilink")

## 10. ECIS (Mr Thomas Vinje) {#ecis_mr_thomas_vinje}

### Pro software patents with a close of interoperability {#pro_software_patents_with_a_close_of_interoperability}

Thomas Vintje is a lawyer working for the ECIS (European Committee for
Interoperable Systems), which has filed comments on the Commission\'s
consultation on future patent policy in Europe. In its submission, ECIS
advocates a patent policy that is based on the fostering of competition
and innovation for the benefit of consumers, accomplished by ensuring
appropriate standards of patentability and examination, as well as by
appreciating the important role played by interoperability. ECIS also
urged the Commission to ensure adequate safeguards against misuse of the
patent system. The greatest threat to an effective and credible patent
system that serves all interests is the use of the patent system in a
manner that subverts it, for example, by allowing entities to accumulate
patents for the mere purpose of extricating royalties by threatening to
stop the commercialisation of a product utilising the patent, without
the entities implementing the patented technologies themselves, by using
patents to prevent interoperability with dominant products or platforms,
or by late disclosure of standards-related patents.

[ECIS official webpage](http://www.e-c-i-s.org/ "wikilink")

[See for further
information](http://216.239.59.104/search?q=cache:eoYR5BQKfAEJ:www.e-c-i-s.org/news/06_apr11.html+Ecis+patent&hl=fr&gl=fr&ct=clnk&cd=2 "wikilink")

## 11. Perm. Repres. of Belgium (Mr Patrick Herman) {#perm._repres._of_belgium_mr_patrick_herman}

### ? {#section_2}

## 12. MERCK (Mr Charles Bouchard) {#merck_mr_charles_bouchard}

### Pro pharmaceutical patents {#pro_pharmaceutical_patents_1}

Charles Bouchard works for Merck operates in the Pharmaceuticals and
Chemicals business sectors. MERCK promotes pharmaceutical patents as a
key to protection the research & development long-term process.

[MERCK official website](http://www.merck.com/ "wikilink")

-   Debate n°4 Jurisdiction: 15 interventions

## 1. THOMSON (Mr Didier Huck) {#thomson_mr_didier_huck}

### Pro software patents {#pro_software_patents_11}

Didier Huck is Thomson Vice President (Public Affairs and Regulation
department). On the behalf of Thomson, he supports the EPLA. Thomson is
a major software patent owner in France.

[Thomson official website:](http://www.thomson.com/ "wikilink")

## 2. ICC UK (Mr Richard Fawcett) {#icc_uk_mr_richard_fawcett}

### Pro software patents {#pro_software_patents_12}

Richard F. Fawcett is an intellectual property consultant working for
Bird and Bird (UK) and ICC. ICC promotes vigorous legislation for the
protection of all kinds of intellectual property, including trademarks,
patents and copyright, at national, regional and international levels.
It believes that the protection of intellectual property stimulates
international trade and exchanges of goods and services, creates a
favorable climate for foreign direct investment, and encourages
transfers of technology and inventions.

[ICC official website](http://www.iccwbo.org/ "wikilink")

## 3. Eurochambers (Mr Pierre Simon) {#eurochambers_mr_pierre_simon}

### Pro patents in general {#pro_patents_in_general_1}

Pierre Simon is the Président of The Association of European Chambers of
Commerce and Industry (Eurochambers). Eurochambers strongly supports the
European Commissions efforts to re-start discussions to reach an
effective patent system in Europe. Eurochambers believes that the lack
of progress on an EU wide patent regime significantly hinders the
innovation potential of European enterprises, especially
[SMEs](SMEs "wikilink").

\"SMEs are discouraged when they try to protect their inventions in the
single European market as nearly as many patent systems exist as there
are EU countries. In addition, language barriers pose a huge problem. A
simplified regime must be adopted\".

[See its complete answer to the Commission
consultation](http://66.249.93.104/search?q=cache:988wuI0ZwGgJ:www.eurochambres.be/PDF/pdf_position_2006/Patent%2520position%2520paper%2520final.pdf+Eurochambers+patent&hl=fr&gl=fr&ct=clnk&cd=4 "wikilink")

[Eurochambers official
website](http://www.dad.be/eurocoach/default.htm "wikilink")

## 4. German Federal Patent Court (Mr Raimund Lutz) {#german_federal_patent_court_mr_raimund_lutz}

### Pro software patents {#pro_software_patents_13}

Raimund Lutz is the head of Department at the German Ministry of Justice
and works for the German Federal Patent Court (Bundespatentgericht).
Though the German Federal Patent Court (Error Search decision, 26 March
2002, BPatG 17 W (pat) 69/98) rejected in 2002 an EPO patent on a
non-technical innovation and pointed out that the EPO\'s doctrine of
\"technical contribution\" makes all business methods patentable and is
therefore in violation of the European Patent Convention. Raimund Lutz
clearly promotes software patentability, supports the European Patent
Office practices and will undoubtly make the promotion of the European
Patent Litigation Agreement.

[See for further information the FFII web
page](http://66.249.93.104/search?q=cache:xOvIY50szfQJ:swpat.ffii.de/papers/eubsa-swpat0202/tech/index.en.html+%22German+Federal+Patent+Court%22+epo&hl=fr&gl=fr&ct=clnk&cd=5 "wikilink")

[On Raimund Lutz](http://wiki.ffii.org/RaimundLutzDe "wikilink")

[German Federal Patent Court official
website](http://www.bpatg.de/index.html "wikilink")

## 5. Patentanwalts (Mr Eugen Popp) {#patentanwalts_mr_eugen_popp}

### ? {#section_3}

Eugen Popp is the president of Patentanwalts.

## 6. ICT Ireland (Ms Hanah Grene) {#ict_ireland_ms_hanah_grene}

### Pro software patents {#pro_software_patents_14}

Hana Grene works for ICT Ireland, a representative lobby group for the
high tech or knowledge sector within IBEC (Irish Business Employers
Confederation). The association represents over 300 companies, both
foreign owned and indigenous. ICT Ireland promoted the CII directive
from 2003 to 2005. Kathryn Raleigh, director of ICT Ireland said:

\"Basically any company which supports innovation and is involved in
research and development would support this directive\"

[For further
information](http://66.249.93.104/search?q=cache:s51fnCpkj5UJ:www.electricnews.net/news.html%3Fcode%3D9614994+%22ICT+Ireland%22+patent&hl=fr&gl=fr&ct=clnk&cd=1 "wikilink")

[ICT Ireland official website](http://www.ictireland.ie/ "wikilink")

## 7. Nokia (Mr Tim Frain) {#nokia_mr_tim_frain}

### Pro software patents {#pro_software_patents_15}

Tim Frain is the Nokia head corporate patent lawyer. Nokia seems
absolutely pro software patents. Their IP patent department did lots of
lobbying in conferences and in the European Parliament inf favour of the
CII directive from 2003 to 2005

[See FFII web page \"Nokia and software
patents\"](http://swpat.ffii.org/players/nokia/index.en.html "wikilink")

## 8. BASF (on behalf of UNICE)(Mr Klaus-Dieter Langfinger) {#basf_on_behalf_of_unicemr_klaus_dieter_langfinger}

### Pro patents on chemical applications {#pro_patents_on_chemical_applications_1}

Klaus-Dieter Langfinger is the BASF (Baden Aniline and Soda Factory)
corporate patent lawyer. BASF is a German chemical company and the
biggest chemical company in the world. BASF promotes biotechnical and
pharmaceutical patents.

[BASF official
website](http://www.corporate.basf.com/en/?id=MhCyb8pdjbcp1XR "wikilink")

## 9. FICPI (Mr Daniel Alge) {#ficpi_mr_daniel_alge}

### Pro patents in general {#pro_patents_in_general_2}

Daniel Alge is an intellectual propriety adviser specialised
biotechnical patents and patent litigations.He belongs to the FICPI
(Fédération International des Conseils en Propriété industrielle) a
non-political, world-wide organisation of intellectual property
attorneys in private practice. FICPI works closely with the European
Patent Office (EPO) and supports its patent policy.

[FICPI official web page](http://www.ficpi.org/ "wikilink")

## 10. AIPPI (Mr Luis  Alfonso Duran) {#aippi_mr_luis_alfonso_duran}

### Pro software patents {#pro_software_patents_16}

Luis-Alfonso Durán is the AIPPI (Association internationale pour la
protection de la propriété industrielle)co-director, the world\'s
leading International Organization dedicated to the development and
improvement of intellectual property. AIPPI promotes software
patentability. Luis  Alfonso Duran is also FICPI vice-president.

[AIPPI official website](http://www.aippi.org/ "wikilink")

## 11. FEMIPI (Mr Paul Georg Maué) {#femipi_mr_paul_georg_maué}

### Pro patents in general {#pro_patents_in_general_3}

Since 1988, Mr. Maué isworking at Ciba-Geigy Switzerland, Patent
Department, which in 1997 became Corporate Intellectual Property Group
Novartis Switzerland. He is a member of EPPC European
[PatentPractice](PatentPractice "wikilink") Committee epi and
Vice-President of FEMIPI (Fédération Européenne des Mandataires de
l\'Industrie en Propriété Industrielle), the European Federation of
Agents of Industry in Industrial Property. The purpose of the Federation
is the study, development and protection of the professional interests
of industrial property agents in industry.

[FEMIPI official website](http://www.femipi.org/ "wikilink")

## 12. Deutscher Anwaltverein (Ms Eva Schriever) {#deutscher_anwaltverein_ms_eva_schriever}

### ? {#section_4}

Eva Schriever works for the Deutscher Anwaltverein is a german lawyer
association aims at protecting the interests of the German attorneys.
\"Safeguarding, protection and promotion of all professional and
economical interests of the Bar, notary lawyers included, especially by
promoting administration of justice and legislation, education and
further training, encouragement of professional solidarity and
scientific spirit among lawyers. It aimes at uniting all lawyers in
Germany. The association observes political and confessional
neutrality\".

[Deutscher Anwaltverein official
website](http://www.anwaltverein.de/01/01/01_e.html "wikilink")

## 13. Open Source Community (Mr Florian Mueller) {#open_source_community_mr_florian_mueller}

### Against software patents {#against_software_patents_4}

Florian Mueller is the foundator of the
[NoSoftwarePatents](NoSoftwarePatents "wikilink").com campaign in 2004
and transferred it to the FFII in 2005. Florian Mueller is also known
for having been involved in the European publishing and distribution of
American software products in various market segments (see Warcraft
II).From 2001 to 2004, he was an adviser to the CEO of MySQL AB, now the
largest European open-source software company. It is may be why is has
been chosen to represent the Open source community.Florian Mueller
speaks against software patents.

[Florian Mueller\'s
Blog](http://www.no-lobbyists-as-such.com/florian-mueller-blog/ "wikilink")

## 14. IIPTC (Mr Allen Dixon) {#iiptc_mr_allen_dixon}

### Pro software patents {#pro_software_patents_17}

In 1999, the IFPI (International Federation of Phonogram and Videogram
Producers) has appointed Allen Dixon, one of the leading international
specialists in copyright and anti-piracy in the information technology
field, to the newly-created position of General Counsel.IFPI represents
the recording industry worldwide with over 1450 members in 75 countries
and affiliated industry associations in 48 countries. IFPI\'s priorities
are: fighting music piracy, promoting fair market access and adequate
copyright laws, helping develop the legal conditions and the
technologies for the recording industry to prosper in the digital era,
and promoting the value of music in the development of economies, as
well as in social and cultural life.

[IFPI Official website](http://www.ifpi.org/ "wikilink")

## 15. CEA (Mr Gustaaf Daemen) {#cea_mr_gustaaf_daemen}

### ? {#section_5}

Gustaaf Daemen is the CEO of CEA (Comité européen des assurances).

[CEA official website](http://www.cea.assur.org/ "wikilink")

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Background explanations {#background_explanations}

### Public hearing next 12 July - European Commission strikes back {#public_hearing_next_12_july___european_commission_strikes_back}

Software are not patentable in Europe, in despite of the European Patent
Office practices and the attempt by the European Commission to legalize
these same practices with the directive on Computer
implemented-inventions (CII) from 2003 to 2005. In fact, a software
patent system in Europe could only be counterproductive and disastrous
for economic development.

For more information on the threat of software patents,see the US
Blackberry case which perfectly illustrates that patent system is not
adapted to ensure software IP protection, and even is dangerous to
innovative and competitive businesses.

<http://wiki.ffii.org/BlackberryEn>

However, the battle against software patents is not finished.

\--

In January 2006, the European Commission started a public consultation
\"on the future of the Community Patent in Europe\" on the pretext of
promoting of developing free market and protecting innovation. In
reality, the aim is to legalize software patents by transferring EU and
member state legislative and judicial power to the European Patent
Office. FFII first questioned the validity of the procedure, based on
the serious lack of accessibility, which means that a majority of EU
businesses were completely excluded from answering. That\'s why FFII
recommended participation to those businesses that are able to do so,
for \"Open democracy\" means more transparency and effective hearings of
all stakeholders\... Following a formal complaint by FFII to the
European Commission\'s President Barroso, European the Commission agreed
to extend its deadline from 31 March 2006 to 12 April 2006.

The next step after the public consultation is the public hearing taking
place the 12th July. The Commission is first supposed to present a
document outlining the preliminary findings of the consultation based on
replies received until 12 April 2006. But is highly possible the total
number of answers worrying against the reintroduction of software
patents won\'t be revealed as it is the habit of the European
Commission. Then, the Internal Market DG will directly consult
stakeholders on their needs in relation to the legal framework and
possible actions in the field of industrial property. The European
Commission 39 selected \"stakeholders\" supposed to reflect the balance
of opinion in the written replies will speak on the issues raised during
the hearing. In reality, the great majority are patents proponents,
mostly software patent proponents like Nokia, Qualcomm, ICT Ireland,
Thomson\...

One of the most important topics will be the European Patent Litigation
Agreement (EPLA), which is a proposed patent law agreement aimed at
creating an optional protocol to the European Patent Convention (EPC),
which would commit its signatory states to an integrated judicial
system. The main driving force behind the EPLA is legalising software
patents and business method patents via case law, under the assumption
that the European Patent Convention still forbids those with the
European Patent Office nevertheless granting them since the mid 1980s.
Moreover The proposed \"European Patent Judiciary\" would lack
independent judges and sufficient democratic control.

For more information, see <http://wiki.ffii.org/EplaEn>

It seems that software patents are coming by the back doors, mainly
through the European Patent litigation Agreement (EPLA) pushed by both
the European Commission and the European Patent Office, in despite of
the decision of the European Parliament to definitively bury the CII
directive on the 6 July 2006. But the European Commission strikes back.

Of course, FFII attend to this public consultation and Pieter Hintjens
will speak in the name of FFII in order to defend the general interest
of European software companies, accompanied with Florian Mueller who
will speak in the name of the Open source communities. FFII is not
alone, it seems that only 4 other [NGOs](NGOs "wikilink") will speak
against the threat of the European Patent Litigation Agreement.

\- UEAPME (Maria Cimaglia)

\- BEUC (Cornelia Kutterer)

\- PIMEC (Marcelino Currel - Suñol)

\- ECIS (Thomas Vinje)

Welcome to the world of the European democracy and fair economic
representativity.

For more information, see the FFII consultation website on
<http://consultation.ffii.org/EU> and the internal market website on
<http://ec.europa.eu/internal_market/indprop/patent/consultation_en.htm>
