1.  1.  -\*- dok: [PlenDef0507](PlenDef0507 "wikilink"); lang: en;
        coding: iso-8859-1; mode: fundamental; -\*-
    2.  datum: 2005-07-03
    3.  title: Plenary Amendments: Definitions

# Plenary Amendments: Definitions {#plenary_amendments_definitions}

-\> \[ [ Amendments](Plen05En "wikilink") \| [ Voting
List](PlenVotingList0507En "wikilink") \| [
Analysis](PlenAmend0507En "wikilink") \]

------------------------------------------------------------------------

-   Articles 1 and 2
-   Baseline: Council text
    [pdf](http://register.consilium.eu.int/pdf/en/04/st11/st11979-re01.en04.pdf "wikilink")

## Article 1 {#article_1}

### Scope

\|\| number \|\| submitter \|\| recommendation \|\| text \|\| \|\|
\*\*\* \|\| Council \|\| () \|\| This Directive lays down rules for the
patentability of computer-implemented inventions. \|\| \|\| 40 = 72 = 93
= 114 = 135 = 158 \|\| Rocard / Buzek 1 \|\| ++ \|\| This directive lays
down the rules concerning the patentability of computer-aided
inventions. ((Change computer-implemented to computer-aided throughout
the text)) \|\| \|\| 14 \|\| JURI 14 \|\| + \|\| This Directive lays
down rules concerning the patentability of computer-controlled
inventions. \|\|

The term \"computer-implemented inventions\" suggests that software on
its own can be a patentable invention. The compromise amendments fix
this.

If Am 40 does not succeed, it is believed that all stray instances of
\"computer-aided invention\" or \"computer-controlled\" invention will
be \"tidied away\" when the text is consolidated after the vote \-- but
this is not confirmed.

## Article 2 (a) {#article_2_a}

### Definition of CII/CAI {#definition_of_ciicai}

\| number \| submitter \| recommendation \| text \| \| \*\*\* \| Council
\| () \| (a) \"computer-implemented invention\" means any invention the
performance of which involves the use of a computer, computer network or
other programmable apparatus, the invention having one or more features
which are realised wholly or partly by means of a computer program or
computer programs; \| \| 41 = 73 = 94 = 115 = 136 = 159 \| Rocard /
Buzek 2 \| ++ \| \"computer-aided invention\" means an invention within
the meaning of patent law the performance of which involves the use of
programmable apparatus; \| \| 15 \| JURI 15 \| + \| \"computer-aided
invention\" means an invention the performance of which involves the use
of a computer, computer network or other programmable apparatus; \|

JURI is already an improvement over the Council text, because it removes
the suggestion that all features can be wholly implemented by a computer
program (in which case the \"invention\" would be nothing but a computer
program).

The compromise amendment improves this further by noting we are talking
about inventions in the sense of patent law (such as the EPC, or
national legislations). This is important because in some jurisdictions,
the meaning of \"invention\" has been gradually slipping to mean
\"anything appearing in a patent claim\".

## Article 2 (b) {#article_2_b}

### Definition of Technical Contribution {#definition_of_technical_contribution}

\| number \| submitter \| recommendation \| text \| \| \*\*\* \| Council
\| () \| \| \| 42 = 74 = 95 = 116 = 137 = 160 \| Rocard / Buzek 3 \| ++
\| \| \| 16 \| JURI 16 \| + \| \|

-   see discussion under [
    patentability](PlenPatentability0507En "wikilink")

## Article 2 (b)a (new) {#article_2_ba_new}

### Definition of Field of Technology {#definition_of_field_of_technology}

\| number \| submitter \| recommendation \| text \| \| 43 = 61 = 75 = 96
= 117 = 138 = 161 \| Rocard / Buzek 4; EPP: Kauppi, Lehne \| + \| (ba) a
\"field of technology\" is a field of applied natural science; \| \| 17
\| JURI 17 \| + \| \"field of technology\" means an application domain
requiring the use of controllable forces of nature to achieve
predictable results in the physical world; \|

1.  1.  The \"application domain\" of the JURI text is wrong, it\'s not
        the application that counts, but the field where knowledge is
        gained. Suggestion: split out \"application\"

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
1.  1.  The compromise amendment is a high level general definition,
        which clearly notes that advances in exact sciences (such as
        mathematics) cannot be called \"technological\".

Am 43 has gained all-party support

## Article 2 (b)b (new) {#article_2_bb_new}

### Definition of Field of Technical {#definition_of_field_of_technical}

\| number \| submitter \| recommendation \| text \| \| 18 \| JURI 18
\| + \| \"technical\" means \"belonging to a field of technology\"; \|

uncontroversial

## Article 2 (b)b\' (new) {#article_2_bb_new_1}

### Definitions of Computer, Data Processing, Computer Program {#definitions_of_computer_data_processing_computer_program}

\| number \| submitter \| recommendation \| text \| \| 44 = 76 = 97 =
118 = 139 = 162 \| Rocard / Buzek 5 \| + \| (bb) a \"computer\" is a
realisation of an abstract machine, consisting of entities such as
processing units, storage space and interfaces for information exchange
with external systems and human users. \"Data processing\" is
calculation with abstract component entities of computers. A \"computer
program\" is a data-processing solution which, once it has been
correctly described, can be executed by computer. \|

Accordingly to this definition, a brake locking system or a computer
tomography solution is not within the range of \"data processing\". The
main effect of the definitions is to limit the scope of what can be
excluded from patentability by calling it \"data processing\".

## Article 2 (b)c (new) {#article_2_bc_new}

### Definition of Interoperability {#definition_of_interoperability}

\| number \| submitter \| recommendation \| text \| \| 19 \| JURI 19
\| + \| \"Interoperability\" means the ability of a computer program to
communicate and exchange information with other computer programs and
mutually to use the information which has been exchanged, including the
ability to use, convert or exchange file formats, protocols, schemas,
interface information or conventions, so as to permit such a computer
program to work with other computer programs and with users in all the
ways in which they are intended to interact. \|

useful
