1.  1.  -\*- dok: pres050217; lang: en; coding: iso-8859-1; mode:
        fundamental; -\*-
    2.  datum: 2005-02-17

# [MEPs](MEPs "wikilink") explain state of play at FFII press conference {#meps_explain_state_of_play_at_ffii_press_conference}

-\> \[ [ Demo](Demo050217En "wikilink") \| [
Restart](Restart050217En "wikilink") \| [ Patent
News](SwpatcninoEn "wikilink") \]

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*17 February 2005 \-- The FFII conducted a press conference in
Renaissance Hotel in Brussels starting with a lunch at 12:30.
Parliamentarians who have been deeply involved in the struggle between
Commission/Council and elected legislators comment on today\'s decision
of the Conference of Presidents and what it means for the future of the
software patent directive project.*

```{=mediawiki}
{{http://media.ffii.org/bxl050217/ft/slide_dscn6925.jpg}}
```
## Speeches and answers to questions by members of Parliament and FFII experts {#speeches_and_answers_to_questions_by_members_of_parliament_and_ffii_experts}

The conference was attended by Brussels correspondents of various
newspapers, including New York Times and International Herald Tribune,
as well as by correspondents from news agencies.

Speeches were given by Jerzy Buzek (MEP, Polish prime minister
1997-2001, co-initiator of the restart motion), [ Arda
Gerkens](ArdaGerkensEn "wikilink"), Alain Lipietz (French Green MEP
interested in intellectual property questions), Florian Müller
(nosoftwarepatents.com) and Erik Josefsson of FFII.

Jerzy Buzek announced that he was very happy with the fact that the
Conference of Presidents had unanimously decided to submit the request
for a restart of the directive to the European Commission. He is
convinced the best way for the new European Parliament to quickly wrap
up this troublesome directive, is by starting its work based on the
outcome of the first reading of the previous EP. This way, they can
profit from all the work which has already been performed. He proposed a
time frame of about 12 months for a new first reading.

Arda Gerkens explained how after being misinformed, the Dutch Parliament
approved a motion asking the government to no longer support the
Council\'s 18 May 2004 text. She noted how the government creatively
interpreted this motion reducing it to a powerless statement, and
thanked the Polish government for repeatedly delaying the approval of
the A-item in the Council.

These delays enabled the Dutch Parliament to have a second chance at
positively influencing the process, which it did by approving a second
motion last week. This second motion asks the government to prevent an
adoption of the directive as an A-item at the Council until the
Commission has replied to the European Parliament\'s restart request.

Alain Lipietz explained how the Greens have opposed this directive from
the start. He also noted that while they supported many of the
amendments approved by the European Parliament in its previous first
reading, several loose ends still have to be tied up, such as for
example the title and article 1. For that reason, they voted against the
amended directive in first reading, and for the same reason they are
also supportive of a new first reading: they want to be able to perfect
the directive text.

Asked about whether he thought the Commission would honour the restart
request, he replied that he thought they would. The Commission has the
option to submit the same text as last time, submit a new text, ignore
the request or reject it. Lipietz did not really care whether the
Commission would choose the first or second option, since the EP can
amend either text as it likes in a new first reading. If the Commission
were to either ignore or reject the EP\'s restart request, he thought
the most probable outcome would be a massive rejection of the directive
in second reading.

Erik Josefsson from FFII hoped that the restart would finally result in
a discussion based on substance, as opposed to discussions about
esoteric further technical effects. He asked companies who have lobbied
in favour of software patents to give clear examples of individual
patents they want to keep, in order to be able to benchmark legislative
proposals and amendments. Vague discussions about \"MRI scanners\" and
\"mobile phones\" do not contribute to getting clear legislative goals.

The conference was also attended by two US lobbyists in favour of
software patents who spread their press release and bravely argued their
case in the discussion, provoking refutals mainly from Müller and
Josefsson. Coming from a US background, they did note they thought the
whole obfuscation of the debate using the misleading term
\"computer-implemented inventions\" was unfortunate.
