1.  1.  -\*- dok: [PrReject050706](PrReject050706 "wikilink"); lang: en;
        coding: iso-8859-1; mode: fundamental; -\*-
    2.  datum: 2005-07-06
    3.  url <http://swpat.ffii.org/log/05/ep0706/>

# European Parliament says no to software patents {#european_parliament_says_no_to_software_patents}

-\> \[ [ français](PrReject050706Fr "wikilink") \| [
português](PrReject050706Pt "wikilink") \| [
italiano](PrReject050706It "wikilink") \| [
deutsch](Ep050706De "wikilink") \] \[ [ 21
Amendments](AmPlenPr050701En "wikilink") \| [
News](SwpatcninoEn "wikilink") \]

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Strasbourg, 6 July 2005 \-- The European Parliament today decided by a
large majority to reject the software patents directive. This rejection
was the logical answer to the Commission\'s refusal to restart the
legislative process in February and the Council\'s unwillingness to
engage in any kind of dialogue with the Parliament. The FFII
congratulates the European Parliament on its clear \"no\" to bad
legislative proposals and procedures.*

This is a great victory for those who have campaigned to ensure that
European innovation and competitiveness is protected from the threat of
software and business process patents. It marks the end of this attempt
by the European Commission to codify into law the US-style practice of
the European Patent Office. We believe that the Parliament\'s work, in
particular the 21 compromise amendments, provides a good basis on which
future legislative projects can build.

Rejection provides breathing space for new initiatives based on all the
knowledge gained during the last five years. All institutions are now
fully aware of the concerns of all stakeholders. However, the fact that
the Council Common Position needs 21 amendments in order to be
transformed into a coherent piece of legislation indicates that the text
is simply not ready to enter the Conciliation between Parliament,
Commission and Council. We hope the Commission and Council will at least
respond to the concerns raised by Parliament the next time, in order to
avoid this sort of backlash in the future.

Jonas Maebe, FFII Board Member, comments on the outcome of today\'s
vote:

\"This result clearly shows that thorough analysis, genuinely concerned
citizens and factual information have more impact than free ice-cream,
boatloads of hired lobbyists and outsourcing threats. I hope this turn
of events can give people new faith in the European decision making
process. I also hope that it will encourage the Council and Commission
to model after the European Parliament in terms of transparency and the
ability of stakeholders to participate in the decision-making process
irrespective of their size.\"

The FFII wishes to thank all those people who have taken the time to
contact their representatives. We also thank the numerous volunteers who
have so generously given their time and energy. This is your victory as
well as the Parliament\'s.

## Background Information {#background_information}

-   [ Free ice-cream for patentability](CampIcecream050601En "wikilink")
-   [Software patent lobbyists add boats to their
    arsenal](http://lists.ffii.org/pipermail/news/2005-July/000297.html "wikilink")
-   [Pictures of the
    boating](http://gallery.ffii.org/Strasbourg050705 "wikilink")

## Contact Information {#contact_information}

`Hartmut Pilch and Holger Blasum`\
`FFII Munich Office`\
`info ffii.org`\
`++49-89-18979927`

`Rufus Pollock`\
`FFII UK`\
`rufus.pollock ffii.org.uk`\
`+44-7795-176976`

`Jonas Maebe`\
`FFII BE`\
`jmaebe ffii.org`\
`+32-485-369645`

`Dieter Van Uytvanck`\
`FFII BE`\
`dietvu village.uunet.be`\
`+32-499-167010`

`Erik Josefsson and Jonas Bosson`\
`FFII SE`\
`erjos cleosan.com`\
`+32-40-82063`\
`jbosson ffii.org`\
`+46-70-4217840`\

## About FFII \-- <http://www.ffii.org> {#about_ffii____httpwww.ffii.org}

The Foundation for a Free Information Infrastructure (FFII) is a
non-profit association registered in several European countries, which
is dedicated to the spread of data processing literacy. The FFII
supports the development of public information goods based on copyright,
free competition, open standards. More than 600 members, 3,000 companies
and 90,000 supporters have entrusted the FFII to act as their voice in
public policy questions concerning exclusion rights (intellectual
property) in data processing. The FFII maintains offices in Munich and
Brussels and national supporter groups in most European countries.
