\--\> \[ [ francais](SwpatjfourtouFr "wikilink") \] \[ [ 2004-06-13 EU
Elections](ElectAct0405En "wikilink") \]

------------------------------------------------------------------------

```{=mediawiki}
{{http://wwwdb.europarl.eu.int/ep6-img/whos/leg6/4336.jpg}}
```
```{=mediawiki}
{{http://www.iccwbo.org/home/news_archives/2002/images/fourtoub.jpg}}
```
-   [vita @
    EP](http://wwwdb.europarl.eu.int/ep6/owa/whos_mep.data?ipid=0&ilg=EN&iucd=4336&ipolgrp=ALDE&ictry=FR&itempl=&ireturn=&imode= "wikilink")

## General information {#general_information}

Janelly Fourtou is a respected figure, but some challenged that she
might stand \"in the shadow\" of her husband Jean-Rene Fourtou, Leading
French businessman, the CEO/Chairman of Vivendi (Universal) (before that
chair of Aventis), one of the worlds 4 big media corporations and
Jean-Rene was also Chairman of the ICC, the International Chamber of
Commerce, obviosly the largest worldwide lobby organisation for big
business, but Janelly denied to stand in the shadow of Jean-Rene. It is
however known now that they placed their stock investments together and
that Janelly benefits from IPR as Jean-Rene by the millions.

Janelly Fourtou\'s latest project was the [IPR Enforcement
Directive](http://plone.ffii.org/events/2004/ipred/ "wikilink"). Read
her [latest letter on
IPRED](http://wiki.ael.be/index.php/IpredCompromise "wikilink") and a
[comment](http://wiki.ael.be/index.php/IpredCompromiseComments "wikilink").

Janelly Fourtou is involved in the [ European Internet
Foundation](EuropeanInternetFoundationEn "wikilink"), which has served
as a relay for much of the lobbying of the \"IP Community\" in the
European Parliament.

Fourtou used the usual dissimulating tactics concerning software
patents: voting for unlimited patentability and at the same time
claiming that \"unlike in the US\", in Europe \"only real inventions\",
\"not algorithms and business methods\", \"not programs as such\" would
\"remain\" patentable.

## News and Chronology {#news_and_chronology}

-   [ 2004-06-02 Fourtou family benefitting](Fourtou040602En "wikilink")
-   [2004-05-16 Fourtou defends IPR bond
    purchase](http://www.iht.com/articles/520190.htm "wikilink")
-   [ 2003-10-xx Fourtou supports the Commission (Howard) to reject the
    Eurolinux petition](Fourtou030930En "wikilink")
-   2003-09-24 Vote on software patent directive
    -   -   [Fourtou](http://codeliberty.org/lobbybase/mepsummary.php?name=Fourtou "wikilink"):
            patent-extremist, close follower of [ Joachim
            Wuermeling](SwpatjwuermelingDe "wikilink")
        -   [EPP
            France](http://codeliberty.org/lobbybase/search.php?region=&country=FR&party=PPE-DE "wikilink")
-   [ 2003-09-23 Fourtou speech before vote: patents on software yes, on
    algorithms no](Fourtou030923Fr "wikilink")

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [ Janelly Fourtou (PPE) : Il faut exclure de la directive la
    brevetabilité des méthodes commerciales et les
    algorithmes](Fourtou030923Fr "wikilink")

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [Jean-René Fourtou elected new ICC
    Chairman](http://www.iccwbo.org/home/news_archives/2002/stories/fourtou_presidency.asp "wikilink")

Mr Fourtou, the Chairman and CEO of Vivendi Universal, will serve for
two years at the head of ICC (International Chamber of Commerce). He
assumes the office of ICC Chairman from January 1, 2003.

\"ICC, the voice of international business\":

With more than 8,000 member companies in over 140 countries, ICC is the
largest, most representative private sector association in the world.

Accepting his new post at ICC\'s annual World Council meeting before a
gathering of some 80 international business leaders, Mr Fourtou said he
looked forward to raising awareness of the vital work ICC does for the
world business community.

\"Public affairs have become strategic for business and most CEOS have
to spend more and more time dealing with these kinds of subjects.

\"It is in this context that ICC\'s main role - as the voice of business
and the advocate of an open international trade and investment system -
has never been more important.

\"Like ICC\'s founders, who called themselves the merchants of peace, I
believe that international trade is an important factor not only for
economic growth and job creation, but also as a means of promoting
better understanding between nations.\"

Headquartered in Paris, ICC employs a permanent staff of some 120
professionals - formulating international business policy, presiding
over the world\'s premier court of arbitration and helping to represent
the interests of companies to national governments and intergovernmental
organizations, including the UN, the WTO and the G8.

-   The Time: [The Fix-It
    Man](http://www.time.com/time/europe/magazine/article/0%2C13005%2C901040503-629316%2C00.html "wikilink") -
    He pulled Vivendi back from the brink of ruin. Here\'s why Jean-René
    Fourtou is the sharpest CEO in Europe right now

-\> Very good article

-   The Fortune: [People to
    watch](http://www.fortune.com/fortune/peopletowatch/snapshot/0%2C16431%2C17%2C00.html "wikilink")
    Jean-Rene Fourtou

-\> short summaries
