# 2004-06-17 UN WIPO policy paper on \"IPR, Innovation and [SMEs](SMEs "wikilink")\" {#un_wipo_policy_paper_on_ipr_innovation_and_smes}

\--\> \[ [ News](SwpatcninoEn "wikilink") \| [
WIPO](SwpatwipoEn "wikilink") \| [
[SMEs](SMEs "wikilink")](SektorEn "wikilink") \| [ WIPO
2003-11-04](Wipo031104En "wikilink") \]

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The World Intellectual Property Organisation (WIPO) has published a
[policy paper \"Intellectual Property Rights and Innovation in
[SMEs](SMEs "wikilink")\"](http://www.wipo.int/sme/en/documents/pdf/iprs_innovation.pdf "wikilink")
which it advertises as follows:

`  A new WIPO policy paper on "Intellectual Property and Innovation in`\
`  Small and Medium-sized Enterprises" is now available on the WIPO`\
`  website. The paper evaluates the importance of intellectual property`\
`  for small and medium-sized enterprises, examines the main barriers`\
`  faced by `[`SMEs`](SMEs "wikilink")` in making use of the IP system and analyzes government`\
`  measures for encouraging a more effective use of the IP system by`\
`  `[`SMEs`](SMEs "wikilink")`. The papers main focus is on countries that are members of the`\
`  OECD. An edited version of the paper was included as a background`\
`  document for the Second OECD Ministerial Forum for Small and`\
`  Medium-sized Enterprises that took place in Istanbul on June 3 to 5,`\
`  2004. `

The paper finds that the \"IP system\" (it refers exclusively to the
patent system and its extensions, e.g. utility models, here) is not
found useful by most small and medium enterprises and proposes remedies
to this problem. These remedies of course do not consist in reducing but
in increasing the number of patents granted. In particular, \"IP
offices\" all over the world and governments are exhorted to involve
!SMEs in new and more powerful networks of patent experts.

The paper mentions the recent expansion of patentable subject matter to
genetics, software, and business methods and states dogmatically that
\"IP\" is of central importance to the functioning of the \"knowledge
economy\", without asking whether broad exclusion rights with the
accompanying heavy management burdens are the right form of
appropriation for this kind of economy.

The paper cites more economic studies than some previous papers, but the
angle of discussion is limited to the question of how to promote the
patent system among !SMEs.

There\'s also some other information to be found in it, however:

` The rise of the information and telecommunications industries and the`\
` increasing importance of the services sector in the economy of OECD`\
` countries have also enhanced the importance of the copyright system as a`\
` tool for protecting the creative efforts of companies in, for example,`\
` the software and multi-media sectors, as well as in many other sectors`\
` which rely on creative work protectable by copyright.  The traditional`\
` focus of the copyright system on artists, musicians and writers, has`\
` increasingly expanded in the current economic context to include`\
` computer programmers and other new categories of creators in the`\
` entertainment, software or teaching industries, to name a few.`

See also

-   <http://www.wipo.int/sme/en/activities/meetings/oecd_03/index.htm>
-   [plaintext
    version](http://swpat.ffii.org/papers/wipo-sme0406/iprs_innovation.txt "wikilink")
