1.  1.  -\*- dok: adelskov050224; lang: en; coding: iso-8859-4; mode:
        fundamental; -\*-

# DK Social Democrats withdraw support for software patent A-item {#dk_social_democrats_withdraw_support_for_software_patent_a_item}

-\> \[ [ Denmark](SwpatdkEn "wikilink") \| [ Alleged
blackmail](Navision050215En "wikilink") \| [
Bundestag](Bundestag041130En "wikilink") \| [ Patent
News](SwpatcninoEn "wikilink") \]

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*The Danish government is coming under increased pressure to remove its
support for the EU Council\'s software patent directive agreement of
last May. The Social Democrats, whose support is quite important for the
governing coalition, are asking for adoption of a cross-party resolution
in the style of the German Parliament and for a pledge by the government
not to allow adoption of the Agreement as an A-item.*

Several
[Danish](http://www.computerworld.dk/default.asp?Mode=2&ArticleID=27184 "wikilink")
[media](http://www.comon.dk/index.php/news/show/id=21263 "wikilink")
carry statements made by Thomas Adelskov, IT spokesman of the [Danish
Social Democrats](http://wiki.ffii.org/DkSocDemEn "wikilink"), to the
[Ritzau news agency](http://www.ritzau.dk "wikilink")

As a swing vote in the Danish software patent struggle, the opposition
party wants the Council decision postponed. Instead the government
should pursue a German amendment proposal.

## Quotes from Adelskov (Danish version below) {#quotes_from_adelskov_danish_version_below}

\"We think so many people have pointed out problems in the proposal that
we ask the government that no decisions be made in the EU on a software
patent directive right now.\"

\"Several other EU countries have taken the position we have now. This
will hopefully mean that we postpone the decision, and in its place have
the necessary more thorough discussion.\"

## Quotes in Danish {#quotes_in_danish}

\"Vi synes, der har været så mange, der har påpeget problemer i
forslaget, at vi vil bede regeringen om, at der i EU ikke bliver truffet
beslutning om, at der laves er softwarepatentdirektiv lige nu,\"

\"Flere andre lande i EU har indtaget samme standpunkt, som vi har nu.
Det får forhåbentlig den betydning, at vi nu udskyder beslutningen, og i
stedet tager den grundigere diskussion, der er nødvendig\"
