# Aktiv Change Log {#aktiv_change_log}

\--\> \[ [ aktiv](AktivEn "wikilink") \]

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Log of bug-fixes, extensions/improvements and incidents affecting the operation of [FFIIs](FFIIs "wikilink") Member Participation System (called \"Aktiv\", aktiv.ffii.org) {#log_of_bug_fixes_extensionsimprovements_and_incidents_affecting_the_operation_of_ffiis_member_participation_system_called_aktiv_aktiv.ffii.org}

(For further information on Aktiv see:
[AktivAdminEn](AktivAdminEn "wikilink"),
[AktivImprovementEn](AktivImprovementEn "wikilink"),
[AktivInternEn](AktivInternEn "wikilink"))

**040710** some aktiv related kwiki pages renamed,
[FfiiprojKreEn](FfiiprojKreEn "wikilink") created. `<phm>`{=html}

**040513** The default language is now EN (was DE). This applies if no
l=xx parameter is given. `<mw>`{=html}

**040513** A database table for the [ MEP Poll](MepV0405En "wikilink"),
called mepqs0405, has been created in the ffii db and defined in
<http://www.ffii.org/assoc/verbdefs.txt>

**040512** New menu entry \"Project participation\" for signing up to
FFII projects with varying levels of involvement.`<mw>`{=html}

**040512** Finally, enabled UTF-8 support for HTML Form submits
(browsers with half-hearted UTF-8 support may still cause
problems).`<mw>`{=html}

**040512** Automatic Response Emails are now sent with
charset=\"utf-8\".`<mw>`{=html}

**040512** Improved prose on Aktiv page \"become a member\" (German
version only - until some feedback comes in).`<mw>`{=html}

**0402-0404** Lots of small improvements and fixes that I didn\'t get
around to add here (yet).`<mw>`{=html}

**040109** Fixed forgotten password feature (after a database format
change, a template variable had not been updated). `<mw>`{=html}

**040108** Fixed spelling errors in payment forms. `<mw>`{=html}

**040108** Re-enabled automatic language-fallback into EN for language
portugese (PT). PT had been marked as \"implemented language\" a little
too early and a \"template not found\" error appeared for users that
came into Aktiv with \"l=pt\". (The promised pt translation did not
materialize). `<mw>`{=html}

**040105** Unreproducable sporadic hangups reported by Hartmut
`<phm>`{=html}. Interference with Knecht module replacement by phm - he
immediately put back a stable version. One possible cause: max \# of
Apache !CGIs surpassed. Too much is going on on genba to expect a stable
environment for \"productive use\". `<mw>`{=html}

**040105** Change log started
