1.  1.  -\*- dok: [AndrewDuff](AndrewDuff "wikilink"); lang: en; coding:
        iso-8859-1; mode: fundamental; -\*-

## Andrew Duff MEP and Software patents {#andrew_duff_mep_and_software_patents}

\--\> \[ [ Toine Manders](ToineMandersEn "wikilink") \| [ UK
Libdems](ElectUkLib0405En "wikilink") \| [ UK
Parties](ElectUkPart0405En "wikilink") \| [UK Patent Family Software
Patents](http://swpat.ffii.org/gasnu/uk/ "wikilink") \]

```{=mediawiki}
{{http://www.ldeg.org/meps/duff.jpg}}
```
On 3rd June 2003, Duff
[Bio\@wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Andrew_Duff "wikilink")
[replys](http://www.timj.co.uk/digiculture/patents/2003-06-03_Duff.php "wikilink")
and FFII comments: *UK Liberal Democrate MEP Andrew Duff sees software
patents as an example* *of an overdosis of property rights which
decrease rather than increase* *innovation and demands that they should
be clearly excluded by the direcitve.*

An [quotes Duff\'s clear statement FFII Press
Release](http://swpat.ffii.org/news/03/plen0620/ "wikilink") from this
letter.

But he voted (against his party\'s written policy in \"Making IT Work -
Policies for Information Technology\" see [ UK
Libdems](ElectUkLib0405En "wikilink")) 100% in line with [ Toine
Manders](ToineMandersEn "wikilink"). Manders was the one who got ALDE to
try to hurry up the Council at the very time that Germany and Poland\'s
parliaments were pouring scorn on the proposal.

-   [Colored UK voting
    overview](http://www.ffii.org.uk/votes/swpat/UK/s.html "wikilink")
-   [Table Comparsion of this letter from 2003 with a letter from
    2004](http://swpat.ffii.org/players/aduff/AndrewDuffMEP.html "wikilink")

The likely reason must be [ Sharon Bowles](SharonBowlesEn "wikilink"),
an European Patent Attorney who makes money on patenting communication
technologies.

[Alex said](http://www.richardallan.org.uk/index.php?p=191 "wikilink"):
*The problem with* [ElectUkLib0405En
\[\[MEPs](ElectUkLib0405En_[[MEPs "wikilink")\| Libdem\]\] *appears to
be that* *they believe that a bad directive would be better than none at
all, and* *that trying to force anti-swpat amendments would force the
Council to abandon* *the directive (thats Andrew Duffs reasoning
anyway). Legislation* *for its own sake appears to contradict Liberal
Democrat principles,* *and in Europe leaves the party open to
Eurosceptic attacks.*

Answer: The reason for this should be the WTO fear that [ Sharon
Bowles](SharonBowlesEn "wikilink") fuels [ the letter at the end of this
page](SharonBowlesEn "wikilink") where she says that Europe must adopt
this directive, otherwise it is weak in WTO accusions from the US for
further expanding patentablity in Europe and that thus, this directive
would restrict patentabiltiy. [ Sharon
Bowles](SharonBowlesEn "wikilink") is the \"Senior Advisor\" of a party
colleague and likely all other Libdems and maybe even most of ELDR,
including [ Toine Manders](ToineMandersEn "wikilink"). - See [ the text
on Sharon Bowles](SharonBowlesEn "wikilink").

------------------------------------------------------------------------

On Sepember 24, 2003, he does not vote for any roll-call vote for an
important amendment, except that he votes against program claims:

-   [Quick roll call scoring overview of Andrew
    Duff](http://www.ffii.org/~bkaindl/questionnaire/tree/UK/ELDR/nduff.html "wikilink")

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Tom Chance met [Andrew Duff in April
2004](http://www.tomchance.org.uk/photos/brussels2 "wikilink"):
`{{http://www.tomchance.org.uk/_imgs/brussels2004/IMG_0948.JPG}}`{=mediawiki}

He commented: *There\'s a photo of Robert and I meeting Andrew Duff, one
of the* [MEPs](MEPs "wikilink") *for the East of England. He\'s a
Liberal Democrat, and seemed pretty much on our side.*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[On 2nd June 2004, a report on
Duff](http://www.the-hug.org/opus191.html "wikilink") quotes Duff with:
*I am convinced of the need for EU legislation in this area. Otherwise
there will be* *an unstoppable drift towards the patenting of computer
software, as there is in the USA.* *Many small and medium-sized firms in
the East of England have told me of their concern that* /patenting will
restrict their ability to write new and better software without
infringing/ *the rules.*

But then his letter continues using the words of the press release of
Diana Wallis:

*But, at the same time,* [SMEs](SMEs "wikilink") *will benefit if the
proposed Directive succeeds* *in establishing clear ground rules.*

*A uniform approach across the EU will save companies time and money in
protecting their* /intellectual property in computer engineering and
improve legal certainty./

Then he steps into the misled language of [the press release of Diana
Wallis](http://www.ffii.org.uk/players/people/meps/libdems/wallis.html "wikilink"):
*However,* [MEPs](MEPs "wikilink") *also voted to limit the scope of the
legislation to affect new inventions* *only. The Parliament also revised
the Commission\'s definitions of computer implemented* /inventions to
try to protect the legitimate interests of individual software writers/
*and small firms.*

Then the grace period thing: *On a Liberal initiative, a grace period of
six months is proposed to allow market testing* *before the filing of a
patent application. Crucially, the Parliament supported amendments* *to
ensure that patent law cannot override interoperability of systems.*

A sign of hope: *In this complex area of legislation the EU is right to
act with caution.*

A pro-patent view: *It has been difficult to strike a balance between
the need for license fees* *on the one hand and the imperative for
competition on the other.*

Then the low-point: *The European software industry needs a better
patent system than the out-dated* *one we have now if it is to be helped
to remain creative.*

*Many thousands of jobs in the East of England would be affected by a
heavy-handed* *approach to software patenting. Cambridge is Europe\'s
biggest cluster of the* *software industry, so the issue is of European
as well as local importance.* *This law will help the smart innovation
for which our region is world renowned.*

Again, patent priest phrases: *I will be working to ensure that nothing
will be patentable in the future* *that is not patentable now.* *Patents
must only be available for things that make a technical contribution to
a true* *invention. And any EU legislation must be compatible with our
international agreements.*

*The draft proposal is now in the hands of the Council of Ministers who
are certain to* *seek to modify the Parliament\'s position in the
direction of the Commission\'s initial* /proposal. Once the Council has
adopted its common position the proposal will pass back/ *to the
Parliament for a second reading, before its final adoption, probably in
September.*

The assistant added outside of the letter:

*My understanding of the current position in Brussels is that the
proposals revised by the Council will go to the (new) Parliament for
second reading. If the Parliament chooses to reinsert its amendments it
is likely (though of course by no means certain) that the Commission
will withdraw the proposal.*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[James wrote On 5 June
2004](http://www.xenoclast.org/free-sklyarov-uk/2004-June/005838.html "wikilink"):
*Andrew Duff does at least at a philosophical level seem to appreciate*
*some of the undesirability of software patenting \-- he did genuinely*
*seem concerned, enough to say he was going to add the issue to various*
*points he was going to raise at a meeting he has scheduled soon with
Lord Sainsbury.*

*He seemed to hold Lord Sainsbury in some regard, as somebody with some*
*real judgement, genuinely his own man, not just a creature of his civil
servants.*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[after an Event with Duff Peter Clay wrote on 10 Jun
2004](http://www.xenoclast.org/free-sklyarov-uk/2004-June/005865.html "wikilink"):

`The Lib Dem, Andrew Duff, was rather equivocal about the whole thing. He`\
`said at one point that copyright protection meant that patents were`\
`unnecessary for software, but spoilt it by going on to talk about stronger`\
`IP protection. We had the opportunity to re-educate him afterwards. :)`

------------------------------------------------------------------------

See also:

-   [Diana Wallis and Software
    patents](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Diana_Wallis "wikilink")
-   <http://www.andrewduffmep.org.uk/>

## Analyis:

There are signs of heavvy lobbyism by patent priests:

We suspect that Sharon Bowles is important here. She is a prospective
LibDem MEP and is a vice-president of the ELDR party bureau. She\'s a
qualified European Patent Attorney running a professional partnership
that she founded over 20 years ago. She specialises in writing,
prosecuting and litigating patents on \"semiconductor fabrication,
communications technology, computer architecture, aeronautics, oil
extraction and industrial fermentation\".

His letter in June 2003 starts with: *\"Thank you for your letter
concerning the Software Patentability Directive.\"*
