# EU criminal law crisis: [IPRED2](IPRED2 "wikilink") derailed {#eu_criminal_law_crisis_ipred2_derailed}

\[ [ [IPRED2](IPRED2 "wikilink")](Ipred2En "wikilink") \]

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*November 23 2005 - Because of a rule of the European Court of Justice
related to criminal law, the current [IPRED2](IPRED2 "wikilink")
proposal is derailed due to procedural lack of competence. The
Commission mentions the pending [IPRED2](IPRED2 "wikilink") in its
communication about the effects of the Court rule.*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Commission Communication (extracts) {#commission_communication_extracts}

One of the aims of this Communication is to suggest a method to correct
the situation with regard to texts which were, in the light of the
Courts ruling, not adopted on the proper legal basis. It also aims at
setting the direction of the future use of the Commissions right of
initiative.

However, the judgment **makes it clear that criminal law as such does
not constitute a Community policy**, since Community action in criminal
matters may be based only on implicit powers associated with a specific
legal basis.

### Consistency of the Unions criminal law policy {#consistency_of_the_unions_criminal_law_policy}

Although the Community legislature may use the criminal law to achieve
its objectives, it may do so only if two conditions  necessity and
consistency ‑ are met.

1.Necessity. Any use of measures of criminal law must be justified by
the need to make the Community policy in question effective. In
principle, responsibility for the proper application of Community law
lies with the Member States. In some cases, however, it is necessary to
direct the action of the Member States by specifying explicitly (i) the
type of behaviour which constitutes a criminal offence and/or (ii) the
type of penalties to be applied and/or (iii) other criminal‑law measures
appropriate to the area concerned. Checks must be carried out to
establish necessity and the observance of the principles of subsidiarity
and proportionality at each of these stages.

2.Consistency. The criminal‑law measures adopted at sectoral level on a
Community basis must respect the overall consistency of the Unions
system of criminal law, whether adopted on the basis of the first or the
third pillar, to ensure that criminal provisions do not become
fragmented and ill‑matched. If a sector seems to require specific rules
in order to implement the objectives of the EC Treaty, the relationship
between these specific rules and the horizontal rules should if
necessary be clarified. Care must also be taken to ensure that the
Member States or the persons concerned are not required to comply with
conflicting obligations. When using its right of initiative, the
Commission will take the utmost care to ensure that this consistency is
preserved. Parliament and the Council must also take account of this
requirement in their own internal organisation.

### Consequences of the judgment for acts adopted and proposals pending. {#consequences_of_the_judgment_for_acts_adopted_and_proposals_pending.}

1\. As a result of the Courts judgment **the framework decisions in
annex are entirely or partly incorrect**, since all or some of their
provisions were adopted on the **wrong legal basis**. It is important
for a number of reasons to regularise these texts quickly by
re‑establishing the correct legal bases. Firstly, even when the period
for lodging an appeal has expired the institutions have a duty to
restore their legality. This duty lies in the first instance with the
Commission, as the guardian of the Treaties and the only body with the
power to propose Community acts. However, an equal responsibility rests
with the European Parliament and the Council, which **are responsible
for adopting these acts**. The second reason concerns the imperatives of
legal security, since the wrong legal basis of the framework decisions
could, in some cases, undermine the national implementing legislation.

\... 1.There are several ways in which existing law can be rectified in
the light of the judgment. One approach would be to review the existing
instruments with the sole purpose of bringing them **into line with the
distribution of powers between the first and the third pillar as laid
down in the Court judgment**. In such a case, the Commissions proposals
would not contain any provisions which differed in substance from those
of the acts adopted, even where the Commission felt that these acts were
not satisfactory. This option offers a quick and easy solution. It
allows the substance of Community legislation to remain unchanged and
ensures legal certainty with regard to provisions that are important to
the realisation of an area of freedom, security and justice. This
solution would work only if Parliament and the Council agree not to open
discussions of substance during this special procedure. Such an approach
accordingly requires the prior agreement of the three institutions.

1.If such an agreement could not be reached, the Commission would make
use of its power of proposal in order not only to restore the correct
legal bases to acts which have been adopted but also to prioritise
substantive solutions in line with what it judges the Community interest
to be.

This alternative is **redundant in the case of pending proposals**.
**The Commission will therefore make the necessary changes to its
proposals as and when required**. These proposals will then **follow the
full decision‑making procedure applicable to their legal basis**. \...

A list of the acts adopted and pending proposals potentially affected by
the Court Decision and which require amendment is attached to this
communication. \...

(Legal basis \*to be used (TEC)\*) Article 95

Proposal for a European Parliament and Council Directive on criminal
measures aimed at ensuring the enforcement of intellectual property
rights and for a Council framework decision to strengthen the criminal
law framework to combat intellectual property offences (COM (2005) 276
final)

## Material

-   [Official Journal of the European Union C135, p.
    21](http://europa.eu.int/eur-lex/lex/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=OJ:C:2003:135:0021:0021:EN:PDF "wikilink")
-   [COMMUNICATION FROM THE COMMISSION TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND
    THE COUNCIL on the implications of the Courts judgment of 13
    September 2005 (Case C-176/03 Commission v Council) (Doc
    file)](http://www.ffii.se/erik/misc/ECJ_JudgementOnCriminalLaw.DOC "wikilink")
-   [Official PDF version of the communication mentioned above
    (COM(2005)583)](http://europa.eu.int/eur-lex/lex/LexUriServ/site/en/com/2005/com2005_0583en01.pdf "wikilink")
