1.  1.  -\*- dok: compat060404; lang: en; coding: iso-8859-1; mode:
        fundamental; -\*-
    2.  datum: 2006-04-04

# FFII requests, gets consultation extension from EU Commission {#ffii_requests_gets_consultation_extension_from_eu_commission}

-\> \[ [ Call for participation](Compat060322En "wikilink") \|
[Consultation
flaws](http://consultation.ffii.org/Press_Release "wikilink") \| [ EP
votes against mutual recognition](MutualRecognition060315En "wikilink")
\| [ News](SwpatcninoEn "wikilink") \]

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Brussels (4th April 2006) - Following a formal complaint by the FFII to
the EU Commission\'s President Barroso, and meetings between the FFII
and the Commission, the Commission has agreed to extend its deadline
from 31 March 2006 to 12 April 2006.*

In a meeting with the Commission on 17th March, the FFII requested an
extension. \"The original deadline was impossible to meet\", said Pieter
Hintjens, President of the FFII. \"We spoke to many firms that were
still preparing their response at the stroke of midnight on 31 March.
The Commission has not answered all of our complaints, but this
extension is welcome and helpful.\"

The Commission has published the extension on their website, saying that
\"this deadline determines which replies will be taken into account for
the hearing on 13 June 2006.\" Later replies may still be considered.

The FFII and other organisations, including large software producers
such as SAP, view the consultation procedure (which covers the Community
Patent EU project and the European Patent Litigation Agreement EPO
project) as the third attempt to introduce software patents into Europe.

Hintjens: \"We told the Commission clearly: the Community Patent and
EPLA do raise the spectre of software patents, and this must be
discussed, not slipped under the table. Furthermore, the EPO is a large
part of the problem and we want to see reform of this institution.
Software patents introduce dangerous and anti-innovation monopolies, are
bad for business, and are demonstrably irrelevant to a sector that has
innovated for five decades without them.\"

The FFII is calling on businesses and organisations to endorse its own
response to the Commission, which will be handed in the day before the
new deadline. Peter Gerwinski of the FFII: \"Print out the page, sign
it, and fax it back to us. We will collect the signatures into one
document that we will hand over personally to the Commission. We
previously did something similar for the Call for Action III during the
second reading of the software patents directive and it made a great
impact.\"

The form to participate in this action is available at
<http://patinfo.ffii.org/faxcollect.en.html>

## Background Information {#background_information}

-   [Participation
    form](http://patinfo.ffii.org/faxcollect.en.html "wikilink")
-   [Commission consultation website (mentions
    extension)](http://europa.eu.int/comm/internal_market/indprop/patent/consultation_en.htm "wikilink")
-   FFII consultation websites:
    [English](http://consultation.ffii.org "wikilink"),
    [French](http://consultation.ffii.fr/ "wikilink"),
    [Dutch](http://www.ffii.be/gemeenschapsoctrooi "wikilink")
-   [FFII call for
    participation](http://wiki.ffii.org/Compat060322En "wikilink")
-   [Flaws in the consultation
    procedure](http://consultation.ffii.org/Press_Release "wikilink")
-   [Permanent link to this press
    release](http://wiki.ffii.org/Compat060404En "wikilink")

## Contact Information {#contact_information}

`Benjamin Henrion`\
`FFII Brussels`\
`+32-2-4148403`\
`bhenrion@ffii.org`\
`(French/English)`

## About the FFII \-- <http://www.ffii.org> {#about_the_ffii____httpwww.ffii.org}

About the FFII: the Foundation for Free Information Infrastructure is a
Munich-based association that fights for competition in the IT sector,
based on copyright, open standards, and open markets. The FFII has
fought software patents for six years, led by its founder Hartmut Pilch,
on the grounds that these create private monopolies that work against
innovation. The FFII is funded by donations and membership fees and
counts activists and members in over 20 countries.
