# Germany, the Trojan Horse of Bolkestein in the Council {#germany_the_trojan_horse_of_bolkestein_in_the_council}

\--\> [ deutsch](ConsDe040518De "wikilink"); [ Council
2004-05-18](Cons040518En "wikilink"), [ DK](ConsDk040518En "wikilink"),
[ NL](ConsNl040518En "wikilink"), [ PL](ConsPl040518En "wikilink"), [
HU](ConsHu040518En "wikilink"), [ EE](ConsHu040518Ee "wikilink"), [
SI](ConsSi040518En "wikilink"), [ FR](ConsFr040518En "wikilink"), [
SK](ConsSk040518En "wikilink"), [ LU](ConsLu040518En "wikilink"), [
LV](ConsLv040518En "wikilink")

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Italian and Danish delegates warned that the German delegate\'s
amendments were meaningless. Yet, Poland and Latvia followed Bolkestein
together with Germany, on whose position they had based their own
opposition. Without Germany\'s leadership, Bolkestein could not have
secured a qualified majority in the Council.

-   <http://wiki.ael.be/index.php/V003.ogg>

On May 12th and later, the German government had promised to oppose the
Council paper or at least to abstain. It had built itself up as the
leader of the opposition against the Council \"compromise\" which
smaller countries would follow.

The German minister in charge, Brigitte Zypries, published an article on
Heise online today in which she claims that her delegation obtained
meaningful improvements which will prevent trivial patents. These claims
lack even the slightest trace of truth.

All the German government achieved was to insert into Art 2b a
requirement that a \"technical contribution\" must be not only
non-obvious but also new. Zypries praised this achievement as an
effective safeguard against broad and trivial patents.

The leading ministerial official of the German delegation, Hansjoerg
Geiger, meanwhile told various news channels that the government was
against broad and trivial patents. It is well known that the very
regulations which the German government helped to push against the
European Parliament systematically produce masses of broad and trivial
patents. See

-   [Why Amazon One-Click Shopping is patentable under the JURI/Council
    proposal](http://swpat.ffii.org/papers/eubsa-swpat0202/tech/ "wikilink")
-   [Why software patents are so
    trivial](http://swpat.ffii.org/analysis/trivial/ "wikilink")

Zypries is under a certain pressure due to a coalition agreement between
the Social Democrats and the Greens, which explicitly states that the
field of software shall be governed by copyright and not by patents. The
action of the current German government in support of making software
patentable can hardly be construed as conforming to the Coalition
Agreement.

From within the German government it is rumored that there has been a
horse-trade to allow a breach of this obligation if in return pet
projects of concerned politicians are pressed through the EU via the
Council. The politicians from the coalition parties have kept
conspicuously quiet. In the past similar agreements have prompted the
German government to press coal subsidies through the EU via the Council
in return for allowing some other countries to continue other subsidies.
The minister of economics responsible for this brokering at the time,
Werner Mueller, is now at the head of the coal agency RAG. The Council
is well known to be a place for this kind of trading. Such trading helps
the member state governments to maintain and enlarge their power at the
expense of other EU institutions.

Many other delegations also acted against intra-ministerial agreements
and agreements with the parliamentary majority.

The decision is not yet valid. It is a political agreement to turn the
current paper into an A item which will then be nodded through at the
next Council meeting. However the [ position of member states has
changed](ConsReversEn "wikilink").
