1.  1.  -\*- dok: dataretpr051214; lang: en; coding: iso-8859-1; mode:
        fundamental; -\*-
    2.  datum: 2005-12-14

# EU adopts Big Brother directive, ignores industry and civil society {#eu_adopts_big_brother_directive_ignores_industry_and_civil_society}

\[ [ français](DataRetPr051214Fr "wikilink") \| [
German](DataRetPr051214De "wikilink") \]

1.  1.  \| \[:DataRetPr051214Pt: português\]
    2.  \| \[:DataRetPr051214Hu: magyar\]

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*14 December 2005 (Strasbourg, France) The European Parliament today
adopted a directive that will create the largest monitoring database in
the world, tracking all communications within the EU. \"From today, all
EU citizens are to be tracked and monitored like common criminals,\"
says Pieter Hintjens, president of the FFII.*

The Data Retention Directive was passed by 378 votes to 197, following
deals between the Council and the leaders of the two largest parties in
Parliament, the EPP-ED (Conservatives) and the PSE (Socialists). The
Rapporteur for the directive, Alexander Alvaro (Liberals) had his name
removed from the report in protest.

Jonas Maebe of the FFII says: \"Among other harsh measures, the
directive mandates recording of the source and destination of all emails
you send and every call you make, and your location and movement during
mobile phone calls. Additionally, the directive says nothing about who
has to pay for all this logging, which will significantly distort the
internal telecommunications market.\"

\"Moreover, the directive disregards how Internet protocols work. For
example, tracking Internet telephony calls is generally impossible
without closely watching the content of all data packets. The reason is
that such connections are not necessarily set up via a central server
which can perform the necessary logging. On top of that you have
techniques like tunneling (VPN\'s) which make it simply impossible to
look at the content\", he adds.

The gathered data can be made available without special warrants, and
without limit to certain types of crime. There will be no independent
evaluation, and no extra privacy and no specific security safeguards.
The data will be retained for periods ranging from 6 months up to any
duration a member state can convince the Commission of.

Hartmut Pilch of the FFII says: \"This outcome proves that we have to
remain vigilant at all times and work on every relevant directive from
the start. Even now, the planned [IPRED2](IPRED2 "wikilink") directive,
also unanimously condemned by industry and civil society, threatens to
turn everyone caught by a patent into a criminal.\"

## Background Information {#background_information}

-   [Two-page overview of the effects of the most important amendments
    ](http://www.ffii.org/~jmaebe/dataret/plen1/summary.pdf "wikilink")
-   [English video stream of today\'s plenary
    session](http://media.vrijschrift.org/ep_vote_datared_051214_en.wmv "wikilink")
    (Windows Media format)
-   [Original language video stream of today\'s plenary
    session](http://media.vrijschrift.org/ep_vote_datared_051214_or.wmv "wikilink")
    (Windows Media Format)
-   [ Data retention: legislative sausage machine in
    overdrive](DataRet0512En "wikilink")
-   [News, position papers on and analysis of the
    directive](http://wiki.dataretentionisnosolution.com "wikilink")

## Contact Information {#contact_information}

` Erik Josefsson`\
` FFII Brussels Permanent representative`\
` ehj @ ffii.org`\
` +32-484-082063`

## About the FFII \-- <http://www.ffii.org> {#about_the_ffii____httpwww.ffii.org}

The Foundation for a Free Information Infrastructure (FFII) is a
non-profit association registered in several European countries, which
is dedicated to the spread of data processing literacy. FFII supports
the development of public information goods based on copyright, free
competition, open standards. More than 850 members, 3,000 companies and
90,000 supporters have entrusted the FFII to act as their voice in
public policy questions concerning exclusion rights (intellectual
property) in data processing.
