# EU Elections 2004 and Software Patents: Analysis for Estonia {#eu_elections_2004_and_software_patents_analysis_for_estonia}

\--\> \[ [ Results](ElectResuEe0406En "wikilink") \| [ EU
Parties](ElectPart0405En "wikilink") \]

------------------------------------------------------------------------

-   <http://www.minut.ee/article.pl?sid=04/06/11/1036216&mode=nested>

Due to \"work-related accident\" in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and
Communications (as it appears neither organisations representing ICT
industry or state IT policymakers were consulted) Estonian position for
18.05.2004 meeting was to support \"Irish compromise\".

Main coalition partners in Estonian government ([Res
Publica](http://www.respublica.ee "wikilink") and
[Reformierakond](http://www.reform.ee "wikilink")) are thus openly
pro-\"compromise\" while third partner ([Eestimaa
Rahavaliit](http://www.erl.ee/ "wikilink"), known to oppose other two
partners in some issues) has answered that patentability issue and
amendments needed to make directive acceptable need further discussion,
but they would definitely vote against current compromise draft and have
promised to be \"open for arguments\".

With the exception of
[Keskerakond](http://www.keskerakond.ee "wikilink") who has not answered
any software patents related questions parties ([Eesti
Sotsiaaldemokraatlik Erakond](http://www.sotsdem.ee "wikilink"),
[Isamaaliit](http://www.isamaaliit.ee "wikilink"), [Eesti
Sotsiaaldemokraatlik Tööpartei](http://www.esdtp.ee "wikilink")) have
either openly stated their position against software patents or (in case
of ESDTP) been \"open for arguments\".

For Estonian parties in EP after June 2004 elections, see also [ voting
results](ElectResuEe0406En "wikilink")
