1.  1.  -\*- dok: fascinosum; lang: en; coding: iso-8859-1; mode:
        fundamental; -\*-

# Technical Invention as Fascinosum {#technical_invention_as_fascinosum}

-\> \[ [ Invention](SwpatkorcuEn "wikilink") \| [ Industrial Property of
the Future](IndpropEn "wikilink") \| [ Book-Implemented
Inventions](BookImplementedInventionsEn "wikilink") \| [ Project
News](FfiiprojNewsEn "wikilink") \]

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*\"Fascinosum\" is an unfathomable object which calls for worship and
for administration by men of superior knowledge, according to
exceptional rules, which, in other contexts, might seem to run counter
to common sense. In much of the conventional wisdom about patents, the
term \"technical invention\" is often misunderstood as referring to this
\"fascinosum\". Attempts to define the term on rational grounds have
been frustrated by an underlying desire to cover all fascinosa by the
term. Programmers and engineers find it difficult to explain that
problem-solving is not an other-worldly activity and that the patent
magic, by which it is supposedly transformed into tradeable assets, is
arbitrary and counter-productive. The fascinosum seems to be the last
major refuge in which certain medieval traditions, such as that of
states granting broad monopolies, have been able to survive against the
tide of enlightenment.*

## News & Chronology {#news_chronology}

-   2004-09 [ german coalition paper opposes \"technical\" to
    \"obvious\", understands technicity as
    fascinosity](ParlReso0410De "wikilink")
-   2003-11 [Wuermeling amendments understand \"technical\" as
    \"difficult\", are rejected by the Commission because of
    this](http://swpat.ffii.org/papers/europarl0309/cec0311/ "wikilink")
    \-- This Wuermeling misunderstanding seems to originate in the
    underlying \"fascinosum\" thinking
-   16xx Queen Elisabeth I grants monopolies to her friends. After a
    protracted battle with the mother of parliaments, her
    monopoly-granting rights are limited to the realm of \"inventions\".

## Definitions

\"The *fasinosum* is a feeling of joy, gratitude, pleasure, or onrush of
grace, at catching a glimpse of the Ultimate, or numen; the *tremendum*
is a reaction of awe, horror, fear, or a feeling of being overwhelmed.
As in the esthetic experience, both the negative and the positive are
seen as valid and therefore endurable\" excerpt from [Creativity and
Personal
Freedom](http://www.csp.org/chrestomathy/creativity_and.html "wikilink")

## Patent Law Reworded {#patent_law_reworded}

### Art 27 [TRIPs](TRIPs "wikilink") (in patent lobby understanding) {#art_27_trips_in_patent_lobby_understanding}

Patents shall be available for all kinds of fascinating achievements,
provided that they are new, non-obvious and useful.

### Commission Software Patent Directive Proposal in a Nutshell {#commission_software_patent_directive_proposal_in_a_nutshell}

Member states shall ensure that computer programs are viewed through the
patent system\'s lense as computer-implemented fascinosa.
