1.  1.  -\*- dok: [SapEp0411](SapEp0411 "wikilink"); lang: en; coding:
        iso-8859-1; mode: fundamental; -\*-
    2.  datum: 2005-02-09

# Paper Presents an Explanation on Corporate Point of View {#paper_presents_an_explanation_on_corporate_point_of_view}

-\> \[ [Why Say \"No\" to Software
Patents](http://swpat.ffii.org/papers/fernandez0502/ "wikilink") \| [
Patent News](SwpatcninoEn "wikilink") \]

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The [Foundation for a Free Information
Infrastructure](http://swpat.ffii.org/ "wikilink") has been carrying a
pan-European campaign agains patentability of software in the European
Union for some years now. The opposition of free software communities to
this kind of patents, as found in the USA and other countries, has often
been asserted; it is due time to look at the issue from the point of
view of corporations: what they stand to win, and how.

This is what [Why Say \"No\" to Software
Patents](http://swpat.ffii.org/papers/fernandez0502/ "wikilink") does:
it explains why big companies like IBM and Microsoft, or even regional
giants like SAP and Nokia, favor software patents.

Recent news items about software patents, like [this FFII press
release](http://wiki.ffii.org/Senado050208En "wikilink") or [this news
update article on LWN](http://lwn.net/Articles/121169/ "wikilink"), take
for granted why software patents are bad; while background pieces like
[Dan Ravicher\'s interview on
LWN](http://lwn.net/Articles/64378/ "wikilink"), or [this Richard
Stallman\'s
editorial](http://www.newsforge.com/article.pl?sid=04/09/09/1612239 "wikilink"),
explain the issue of software patentability from the point of view of
the small company and/or the independent developer. The reasons
expressed (that software patents favor big companies, that free and open
source software is left out in the cold, that silly patents abound),
while true, are not clear enough. The author explains the motives of the
pro-patent field in [this step-by-step
exhibition](http://swpat.ffii.org/papers/fernandez0502/ "wikilink"),
which should stand out as a reference for those uninitiated in the black
arts of free software.
