# Report on FISL 6.0 {#report_on_fisl_6.0}

The 6th [Free Software International
Forum](http://fisl.softwarelivre.org/6.0/ "wikilink"), held a lecture on
software patents carried out by Suso Baleato, spokesman of the [FFII\'s
regional group at Galiza](http://mesagalega.ffii.org/ "wikilink").

## About the FISL 6.0 {#about_the_fisl_6.0}

This event took place at Porto Alegre (Brazil) during the first week of
June 2005. All the workshops and lectures were located in the [Event\'s
Center](http://www.pucrs.br/cepuc/ "wikilink") of the [Pontificia
Universidade Católica do Rio Grande do
Sul](http://www.pucrs.br "wikilink"). More than 4.000 attendees, the
presence of [relevant
speakers](http://fisl.softwarelivre.org/6.0/speakers "wikilink") and the
high-density
[program](http://fisl.softwarelivre.org/papers/pub/ "wikilink") turns
this event in the yearly world-wide most important event of the Free
Software comunity. *Technologically viable, socialy just, economically
sustainable* was the lema this time. Software patents are a crucial item
in the short term and that was the reason why FFII was invited to
participate.

## Lecture on Software Patents {#lecture_on_software_patents}

The
[lecture](http://fisl.softwarelivre.org/papers/pub/programacao/347 "wikilink"),
entitled *The taste of software patents in Europe*
([source](http://ffii.org/~suso/Europa_Software_Patents_FFII_FISLVI_Suso_Baleato.odp "wikilink"))
covered the pro-swpats efforts to force democratic european institutions
to legitimate their bussiness models describing the succesfully FFII
intervention to avoid that. After a brief presentation of the FFII
organization and mission, the lecture begun with a historical
perspective starting at the XI century. It was described the evolution
of the patent system around the world from the \'letters of mark\' until
the stablishment of the current patent system. There were signaled the
common myths about patents using the well known examples of the
telephone, the plane and the steam engine. After reviewing other
subjects of patentability like inorganic molecules, enginereed bacteria
or genetics, it was expounded how the patents model was expanded to
include software. To illustrate that, it was described the evolution of
the patent system in the United States, mainly driven by Court
decisions. Then, how the posibility of patenting software began to enter
Europe using the *Computer Implemented Inventions* euphemisms sponsored
by BSA and others. After that, the tramitation process of the related
directive in the European Parliament and the FFII work to move the
positions to avoid software patentability.

After the lecture exposition, a round of questions was started, inviting
attendees to focus on a commonwork to share different experiences in
other areas, questions about the european case and ideas to help avoid
software patentability in Europe and in the rest of the world.

Questions and statements were made until the deadline time, in a very
creative and positive sharing of knowledge. South America attendees put
special attention to the vulnerabilities of the regional pure economical
projects without a social policy as an entrance way to software patents,
having in mind the ALCA/ MERCOSUR and the European Union as examples. A
very interesting comparison between DNA and software was made an it was
found that the software patents case is very usefull to explain cases
like transgenic seeds. Finally, some discussion was stablished in
reference to a relationship proposed between the European Constitution
rejection of France and Netherlands and the software comunity rejection
of CII Directive.

## Overall aspects {#overall_aspects}

FISL 6.0 satisfied all the previsions, from the excellent organization
to the high quality of resources available, including simultaneous
translations, media equipments or transportations. The high presence of
brazilian government and academic representatives, delegations of other
countries, the stands of IBM and Sun, the speakers and the great amount
of projects worked together to produce a very interesting and positive
result.

FLOSS comunity was interested in software patents. The main amount of
questions were related to the confusions between intellectual property
rights and patents, and the inner nature of patentability. Developers of
South America projects usually identified software patentability with
genetic patents. This confusion was also present in the side of United
States developers, who mainly state a clear rejection against software
patents showing a lot of interest in the capacity of european citizens
to stablish a so succesfull dialogue with the common administration to
avoid software patents for years. European developers were very
concerned and asked more practical questions as the date of votations,
posibilities, strategies an so on.

The presence of IBM and Sun with big stands was an excellent opportunity
to confront their patents policies with the FLOSS comunity. In different
times, they were asked about the contradiction of defending software
patents but investing in free software. Representatives of that
companies claimed to not having contradictions as they are sharing
software with the community and also liberating patents for free
software use. The FFII intervention helped to clarify the nature of that
\'patents liberation\', as indeed IBM policy is to not use software
patents against free software \"unless they do something useful\" (art.
5.2) and compete with their products (i.e. DB2). Also it was important
to clarify that the Sun patents are liberated only for the use with
[OpenSolaris](OpenSolaris "wikilink") not for all the software or all
the libre software.

Finally, the interaction with governments representatives was very
succesfull also. Mainly interested in technical and procedural
questions, a lot of contacts were stablished with leader projects of
free software and economical sustainability of the Brazilizan, Basque
Country, Colombia or Extremadura governments, who asked FFII presence in
events they are organizing. The dialogue with Sergio Amadeu, President
of the brazilian National Institute of Technology about IP laws and
software patents was very interesting, showing all the common points
with the FFII positions, and the same thing with the directors of
different projects of the Health and the Defence ones. Specially
interesting was the interchange with the representatives of the Basque
Country government, organizers of the next International Municipal
Meeting on Sustainable Technology of the UNESCO who showed a lot of
interest in a free informational infraestructure as a way to support
their projects focused on SME innovation.

## Related links {#related_links}

### Documentation

[Foundation for a Free Informational
Infrastructure](http://ffii.org "wikilink")

[Web of the FISL 6.0](http://fisl.softwarelivre.org/6.0/ "wikilink")

[Galician FFII\'s regional group (Mesa Galega pola Libre
Innovación)](http://mesagalega.ffii.org/ "wikilink")

[References about Computer Implemented Inventions
Directive](http://mesagalega.ffii.org/html/ligas.html#patentes "wikilink")

### Annoucements and reports {#annoucements_and_reports}

[Announcement of the FFII presence at
FISL:](http://wiki.ffii.org/SwpatpenmiEn "wikilink")

[Announcement to galician-speaker
community](http://www.agnix.org/index.php?option=content&task=view&id=898 "wikilink")

[Announcement at FISL
webpage](http://fisl.softwarelivre.org/papers/pub/programacao/347 "wikilink")

[Announcement to the spanish-speaker
comunity](http://barrapunto.com/article.pl?sid=05/05/05/1116204 "wikilink")

[Report to the galician-speaker
comunity](http://mesagalega.ffii.org/html/actualidade/20050629142911.html "wikilink")

### Media

[Source of the
lecture](http://ffii.org/~suso/Europa_Software_Patents_FFII_FISLVI_Suso_Baleato.odp "wikilink")
([Open Office](http://www.openoffice.org "wikilink"))

[Video Interview to Suso Baleato to event
TV](http://www.infomediatv.com.br/visualiza_video.php?id_video=19 "wikilink")

------------------------------------------------------------------------

20060216 - Suso Baleato: links updated, lecture source updated
[OpenDocument](OpenDocument "wikilink") standards

20050708 - Suso Baleato \<suso @ ffii org>
