1.  1.  -\*- dok: hudghton050308; lang: en; coding: iso-8859-1; mode:
        fundamental; -\*-
    2.  datum: 2005-03-08

# Scottish National Party: EU Council deals blow to software developpers {#scottish_national_party_eu_council_deals_blow_to_software_developpers}

-\> \[ [ fran√ßais](Hudghton050308Fr "wikilink") \] \[ [ Adoption
Farce](Cons050307En "wikilink") \| [ Questions to the
Council](LtrFfiiCons050308En "wikilink") \| [
Hudghton](IanHudghtonEn "wikilink") \| [ Patent
News](SwpatcninoEn "wikilink") \]

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Monday, 7 March 2005 \-- In a comment to the media, Ian Hudghton, MEP
of the Scottish National Party (SNP) criticises the decision of the
Council of Ministers to \"adopt\" a \"common position\" on software
patents without a qualified majority. Hudghton does not seem to be aware
of the illegality of the adoption itself yet.*

## The Text from Hudghton {#the_text_from_hudghton}

EU MINISTERS\' BLOW TO SMALL SOFTWARE DEVELOPERS

SNP European Spokesman **Ian Hudghton MEP** has criticised European
Economics Ministers who today backed controversial new rules on software
patents that many fear could have a severely detrimental effect on
independent software developers.

There are concern s that the new rules will favour large multinational
companies such as Microsoft who have the financial means to exploit the
new regime. At present, computer software is subject to copyright
legislation in Europe but the new plans would make software patentable.

Speaking from Strasbourg, Ian Hudghton MEP said:

\"I\'ve been contacted by a number of constituents who are very
concerned about these proposals. I share their concerns and we\'ve been
demanding changes to the new rules before they come into force. Today\'s
decision by European ministers is disappointing but at least it means
the plans will come back before the European Parliament where they\'ll
face strong opposition.

It\'s appalling that Ministers chose to favour big multinational
companies over small scale businesses who will find it even more
difficult to compete if the market is skewed further in favour of the
likes of Microsoft. We should be encouraging and supporting the
development of high tech creative industries not working against them.
These are ill thought out plans that need radical overhaul.\"
