# 2004-06-12 IBM obtains patent on caps lock key status display {#ibm_obtains_patent_on_caps_lock_key_status_display}

\--\> [ deutsch](Ibm040612De "wikilink"); [
News](SwpatcninoEn "wikilink")

------------------------------------------------------------------------

One more of thousands of broad and trivial software patent granted this
year by the US Patent Office has made it to the news headlines of the IT
press. See

-   [US
    6748468](http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO1&Sect2=HITOFF&d=PALL&p=1&u=/netahtml/srchnum.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&s1=6,748,468.WKU.&OS=PN/6,748,468&RS=PN/6,748,468 "wikilink")

and the main claim listed below.

We have yet to check the status of this patent\'s cousin at the European
Patent Office (e.g. by family search based on 6748468 at
[depatisnet](http://www.depatisnet.de/ "wikilink")).

## Comments

### Hartmut Pilch (president of FFII) {#hartmut_pilch_president_of_ffii}

There is no doubt that this one [qualifies as a \"computer-implemented
invention\" and \"makes a technical contribution\" according to the
standards of the European Commission, Council and Patent
Office](http://swpat.ffii.org/papers/eubsa-swpat0202/tech/ "wikilink"),
but there may be enough prior art to invalidate it on both sides of the
Atlantic. The European Patent Office has granted IBM numerous patents
similar to this one, but if the European Parliament can uphold last
september\'s vote for the rules of the European Patent Convention, they
will remain unenforcable in Europe and we won\'t need to search prior
art for it.

The EPO is different from the USPTO on such matters only in one respect:
its examination backlog is much longer, so that usually several years
pass before the same patent is granted at the EPO, and at that time the
examiners are already aware of any news scandal that may have aroused
around the patent in question. Yet, even in scandal cases such as Amazon
One Click / Amazon Gift Shopping they sometimes do eventually grant the
scandal patent.

## Claim 1 {#claim_1}

A Caps Lock notification method, comprising:

-   determining that a Caps Lock key of a computer keyboard is in an
    error state, based on determining that a first condition has been
    satisfied;
-   generating an error signal in response to the determining that the
    Caps Lock key is in the error state;
-   ascertaining whether a second condition has occurred after the
    generating; and
-   if said ascertaining has ascertained that the second condition has
    occurred then disabling the error signal in response to said
    ascertaining without changing the error state.
