1.  1.  -\*- dok: kuenast041221; lang: en; coding: iso-8859-1; mode:
        fundamental; -\*-
    2.  keyws: Renate Künast, Dr. Peter Witt, Agriculture, A-item,
        Software Patents, Directive, Patentability, Computer-Implemented
        Inventions
    3.  datum: 2004-12-21

# 2004-12-21 German Green Minister of Agriculture Evading Council Vote (?) {#german_green_minister_of_agriculture_evading_council_vote}

-\> \[ [ deutsch](Kuenast041221De "wikilink") \] \[ [
Netaction](Demo0412En "wikilink") \| [ Patent
News](SwpatcninoEn "wikilink") \]

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*\*Berlin, 21st of December 2004\** \-- FFII received reports by
well-informed sources in Berlin that on the eve of the software patent
vote in the EU Agricultural Council the german minister who was
scheduled to attend, Ms Renate Künast, declined to attend the session
and passed the ball on to the ambassador of Germany at the EU, Dr. Peter
Witt. These rumors have meanwhile been confirmed by the ministry.

The German representative office in Brussels is said to be directly
subordinate not to the foreign ministry of Joschka Fischer (another
green) but to the chancellery office, and Witt is expected to agree to
the proposed text.

From conversations we learned that the minister was in difficulty.
Squeezed in between pressure from the member base of the Green Party and
the European colleagues on the one hand and the German ministry of
justicy and chancellery office on the other, Künast may have had little
choice.

The ministry was confronted with pressure by the justice ministry, which
again was backed by the chancellery office. The Ministry of Justice
pointed to an intra-ministerial agreement of April, which itself has
been spectacularly violated by last-minute manoevering at the session in
May.

See more in the [ German version](Kuenast041221En "wikilink").

-   [Lebenslauf Dr. Peter
    Witt](http://www.eu-vertretung.de/de/vertretung/lebenslauf_witt.php "wikilink")
    \-- Judging from to this German curriculum vitae, Mr. Witt\'s level
    of expertise in questions of agriculture approximately matches that
    in software
-   [EU-Vertretung der Bundesrepublik
    Deutschland](http://www.eu-vertretung.de/ "wikilink") \-- EU
    representation of the Federal Republic of Germany, said to be
    subordinate to the chancellery office (Schröder) rather than to the
    foreign ministry (Fischer).

## Update

At a later date, Künast\'s minsistry sent cynical letters to those
concerned about the Council\'s software patent text, telling them the
mother of all lies, i.e. that this text didn\'t and wasn\'t intended to
make software patentable. This deepened the disillusionment of the
software world with the Berlin Greens.

-   2005-01-21 DE [ Zynischer Antwortbrief des
    Verbraucherschutzministeriums](LtrStark050121De "wikilink") Update:
    [ Dr. Starke: wir können gar nichts
    machen](LtrStark050121De "wikilink")
