1.  1.  -\*- dok: lehne050625; lang: en; coding: iso-8859-1; mode:
        fundamental; -\*-
    2.  datum: 2005-06-25

# Row over conflicts of interest of Klaus-Heiner Lehne MEP {#row_over_conflicts_of_interest_of_klaus_heiner_lehne_mep}

-\> \[ [ français](Lehne050625Fr "wikilink") \] \[ [
Lehne](KlausHeinerLehneEn "wikilink") \| [ EPP
Hearing](EppHearing050602En "wikilink") \| [ JURI
vote](Juri050620En "wikilink") \| [ Patent
News](SwpatcninoEn "wikilink") \]

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*25 June 2005 \-- German web fora have been agitated by online
discussions and news articles about apparent interest conflicts of Klaus
Heiner Lehne MEP, who, as a coordinator of the European People\'s Party
in the Legal Affairs Committee, strongly opposed all amendments that had
any limiting effect on patentability or enforcability, and actively
fought in JURI as well as in Berlin and elsewhere for widest possible
patentability. It now appears that Lehne works as a Brussels lobbying
consultant for multinational corporations who are the main clients of
one of the leading lawfirms for patent litigation in Europe, which is
also itself involved in patent lobbying and closely connected to
lobbying organisations.*

The discussions began with a [posting in the Heise web
forum](http://www.heise.de/newsticker/foren/go.shtml?read=1&msg_id=8243433&forum_id=80582 "wikilink")
which led to further investigations by some readers and a public letter
of an SME initiative in Lehne\'s home region, which again spread to a
[Heise article](http://www.heise.de/newsticker/meldung/60988 "wikilink")
and articles in other leading IT newsmedia as well as [in Der
Standard](http://derstandard.at/?url=/?id=2090342 "wikilink"), an
Austrian newspaper. FFII [ collected all these
findings](KlausHeinerLehneEn "wikilink").

According to these findings, Lehne joined the Brussels and Düsseldorf
offices of the international law firm Taylor Wessing as an MEP in
September 2003, to become a partner and head of the division on
\"regulatory affairs\", whose main job appears to be \"strategy
consulting\" for companies that take special interest in the future
direction of EU legislation. The main focus of Taylor Wessing is patent
litigation, especially at the service of multinational companies. Taylor
Wessing is also one of a few privileged companies who offer specially
favorable conditions for the members of a German association [
BVDW](SwpatdmmvDe "wikilink"), which is known to be a proxy of [
Microsoft](SwpatmicrosoftEn "wikilink").

While small and medium enterprises (!SMEs) from Lehne\'s home district
have for many weeks failed to receive appointments from Lehne, Lehne has
been [ telling audiences](EppHearing050602En "wikilink") that the !SMEs
in his home district want software patents.

More details about the media reports and some collections of relevant
facts from the web can be found in our [ documentation of Klaus-Heiner
Lehne](KlausHeinerLehneEn "wikilink").
