1.  1.  -\*- dok: lehne050704; lang: en; coding: iso-8859-1; mode:
        fundamental; -\*-
    2.  datum: 2005-07-04

# Lehne \"protecting innovation\" in Parliamentary Magazine {#lehne_protecting_innovation_in_parliamentary_magazine}

-\> \[ [ Parlmag 2005-07-04](Parlmag050704En "wikilink") \| [
Lehne](KlausHeinerLehneEn "wikilink") \]

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*In an article for Parliamentary Magazine published 2 days before the
2nd reading vote, Klaus Heiner Lehne MEP, JURI coordinator for EPP and
lobbying consultant for a patent law firm, reiterates some well-known
lies about the software patent directive, and adds new ones.*

## \"CII are not software\" {#cii_are_not_software}

One more reiteration of the [ mother of lies](CIIisSwEn "wikilink"):

\|\| We are dealing with a proposal to harmonise at EU evel the
patentability of computer implemented inventions. We are not talking
about \"software patents\", because this directive is not about how to
patent software. \|\|

Compare this also to

-   [ Lehne lawfirm partner: Directive will give us US-style software
    patents](Stoat050704En "wikilink")

## Misinformation about the legal situation and history {#misinformation_about_the_legal_situation_and_history}

Lehne pretends that the software patenting rules proposed by the Council
were established by the EPC in the 1970s:

\|Today, in all member states, computer implemented inventions are
protected by patent law. This protection is based on the interpretation
of the existing patent laws; the distinction between patentable computer
implemented inventions and non-patentable software was elaborated by
jurisprudence in the 1970. This took place because the protection of the
software component by copyright prevented copying only.\|

Here Lehne compounds the [\"copyright is weak\"
lie](http://swpat.ffii.org/analyse/kopie/ "wikilink") by attributing it
to imaginary lawcourt decisions of the 1970s. Compare this with the
concluding remarks of the famous [Dispositionsprogramm decision of
1976](http://swpat.ffii.org/papers/bgh-dispo76/ "wikilink"), which
rejected software patents because the subject matter is more appropriate
for copyright, and explicitely rejected claims of the appellant that
copyright is too weak.

== CII = innovation in information technology, small players need them
most ==

\|For global players, this (copyright alone) might be sufficient. Butit
does not help individuals, [SMEs](SMEs "wikilink"), universities or
research institutions. Innovative products need to be protected by
patent law, because only patents protect the functioning and the concept
of an invention. A patent helps start-up enterprises to obtain necessary
credits, to find investors or to get onto the stock market. Obtaining a
patent is neither burdensome nor costly. Technical inventions in many
fields of technology, such as information technoogy, telecommunications,
the automotive industry, \... and medicine, include software components.
\...\| Note: this reads very much like the standard discourse from the [
Siemens](SwpatsiemensEn "wikilink") patent department.

## New myth about 1st reading: confusing JURI with Plenary {#new_myth_about_1st_reading_confusing_juri_with_plenary}

In accordance with his new tactic of appearing conciliatory (see section
below on \"consensus of !MEPs\"), Lehne no longer attacks the
achievements of the Parliament\'s first reading but rather tries to
attribute them to the Legal Affairs Committee, whose pro-patent stance
had been undone by the 1st Reading. Lehne calls the [cosmetic amendments
of JURI](http://swpat.ffii.org/log/03/juri0617/ "wikilink") a \"complete
rewrite\" and claims that the JURI wordings eliminated trivial patents
and business methods:

\|We have added important safeguards with regard to the initial European
Commission proposal: at first reading, the European Parliament\'s Legal
Affairs Committee adopted a complete re-writing of the directive that
became the basis for the common position. A clearer definition of the
invention, modelled along the traditional definition was introduced. The
exclusion of trivial patents, algorithms, business methods and software
\"as such\" was clarified. Now, at second reading, we have introduced an
interoperability clause. This clause shall ensure that, without
prejudice to standardisation, programmes and operating systems must be
able to interoperate. Free choice of products is guaranteed by this new
provision.\|

Note: at 2nd reading, JURI scrapped the interoperability clause which it
had adopted in 1st reading in order to replace it by the [ Kauppi-Lehne
clause](JuriInterop0505En "wikilink") which requires an SME to litigate
for years before it can hope to receive a permission to interoperate.
The other statements about the JURI achievements in 1st reading are also
groundless. All JURI did in June 2003 was to introduce some wordings
from the [Council\'s position of November
2002](http://swpat.ffii.org/papers/eubsa-swpat0202/dkpto0209/ "wikilink"),
which left the Commission\'s approach of codifying the latest EPO
doctrines mostly unchanged but newly introduced program claims. The
Plenary then rejected this JURI approach in September 2003.

## EPO practise is OK, no unjustified claims {#epo_practise_is_ok_no_unjustified_claims}

\|There are about 30,000 patents on computer implemented inventions. To
my knowledge there have not been any reports on unjustified claims over
the last ten years.\|

On \"unjustified claims\" from EPO patents, see

-   [EPO Patent Horror
    Gallery](http://swpat.ffii.org/patents/ "wikilink") \-- contains
    examples of patents with claims that few would find justified, as
    well as examples of patents in action
-   [ Patents in Action](SwpikxraniEn "wikilink") (contains a more
    recent section about EPO-granted patents)

## \"We need to strengthen the positions of software inventors\" {#we_need_to_strengthen_the_positions_of_software_inventors}

\|India and China envisage a major increase in their market share over
the next five years. Both countries grant patent protection even for
software inventions. We have to strengthen the position of our
inventors. If we fail to do so, they will lose their international
markets to others.\|

Here Lehne ignores the territorial nature of patents for the sake of
protectionist fearmongering. The interesting point however is that once
more he implies that the aim of the directive is to strengthen European
\"software inventors\", i.e. owners of software patents.

## Badmouthing the US for tactical purposes {#badmouthing_the_us_for_tactical_purposes}

After claiming that the principles of patentability of \"CII\" are clear
and unified since the 1970s, Lehne now still needs a reason for a
directive. Again the reason is to be sought in some unreasoned fear of
what might happen without it:

\|The courts need political guidance. If we do not give this guidance,
the development of this jurisdiction might lead to a situation similar
to that in the US, where patents are granted to those who have better
lawyers and more money for longer litigations.\|

In the US, patents are cheaper and more easily available to everybody,
not just those with better lawyers.

## Sudden \"broad consensus among [MEPs](MEPs "wikilink")\" on aims of the directive {#sudden_broad_consensus_among_meps_on_aims_of_the_directive}

\|In my opinion, there is a broad consensus among
[MEPs](MEPs "wikilink") about the aims of the directive. Unfortunately
there is no consensus about how to formulate this directive in a legally
viable way.\|

Note: until recently Lehne [ claimed](EppHearing050602En "wikilink")
that the socialists aimed at dismantling the patent system: \"There is
\... quite a huge difference, as far as the position of EPP-ED is
concerned, to the Rocard position: the Rocard amendments aim, and I
think this is also true for the compromise amendments, for putting the
patent system as a whole in question.\" Meanwhile Lehne seems to have
come under pressure from his own group and is trying to dissimulate his
own aims, which remain quite different from those of the majority of
!MEPs.

## Real guidance postponed to fictitious \"annual scrutiny\" {#real_guidance_postponed_to_fictitious_annual_scrutiny}

Moreover, Lehne does not really want to give any guidance apart from
some abstract principles, which, according to his previous text, are
already known since the 1970s:

\|The legislator has to formulate abstract and general rules that need
interpretation when applied. In the field of legislation that evolves
rather quickly, as in the case of computer-implemented inventions, it is
not possible to cover all possible cases submitted to the patent offices
and courts over the next decate. The application of the rules of this
directive is up to the patent offices and courts. We gave clear
instruction to them and we included the guidelines for the
interpretation of the legal provisions in the directive. But we are well
aware that the commission and the parliament will scrutinise, on an
annual basis, the future developments of the practise of the patent
offices and the judgements of the courts in order to intervene if
necessary.\|

Annual scrutiny of patent caselaw by Parliament would be nice but is
unrealistic and not planned by anyone. Once property rights are
sanctioned by this directive, they can hardly be influenced by annual
decisions, and the Parliament does not have the right to adapt
legislation, neither alone nor by proposing something to the Commission
and Council.

Even during the three years during which, due to an initiative from the
Commission, the directive was under scrutiny by the Parliament, very few
!MEPs looked at the gory details of patent jurisdiction. All Lehne ever
did was to take the pressure of scrutiny away from the patent
establishment, e.g. by claiming that \"there have not been any reports
on unjustified claims over the last ten years\" (see above) and
presenting the new EPO doctrines which this directive attempted to
codify, as something from the 70s that really needed no scrutiny.
