1.  1.  -\*- dok: [LtrFfiiMeps0503](LtrFfiiMeps0503 "wikilink"); lang:
        en; coding: iso-8859-1; mode: fundamental; -\*-
    2.  title: DRAFT FFII Letter to Members of the European Parliament

-\> \[ [ fran√ßais](LtrFfiiMeps0503Fr "wikilink") \] \[ [
Letters](SwpatxatraEn "wikilink") \| [Letter
2005-01-31](http://swpat.ffii.org/letters/juri0502/ "wikilink") \| [
Patent News](SwpatcninoEn "wikilink") \]

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## UPDATE

The original draft was divided into a dedicated [2nd reading position
paper](http://wiki.ffii.org/Plen05En "wikilink") and a project to create
a Call For Action III campaign.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*A letter which was distributed in paper form to MEP mailboxes on
Tuesday morning 2005-03-29.*

Dear Members of the European Parliament,

As an organisation which has studied the software patent directive
dossier for many years and which has been explicitly entrusted by 80,000
individuals and 1,400 companies to act as their voice on this subject,
we would like to explain our views on how to proceed with the software
patents directive.

The text submitted by the Council is not worthy of the name \"Common
Position\". The Council ignored requests from four national Parliaments
and three of its own members to reopen discussions, and additionally the
text is accompanied by 8 unilateral declarations of concerns. Along with
the Commission\'s rejection without justification of the EP\'s restart
request, this means the EP\'s second reading carries the undue burden of
basically having to start from scratch.

There are two approaches we support: reinstatement of the spirit of the
first reading of the EP and if that would be deemed to be impossible,
rejection of the directive. We are convinced anything in between will
lead to legal uncertainty and codified unlimited software patentability.

Both approaches have a strong case going for them, and both would send a
strong signal to the legislative and executive branches of the European
Union. They are explained in more detail in Annexes A and B of this
letter. Since we are aware of the need for independent third party
reports, we also summarise a few of those in Appendix C.

Finally, we have also prepared an overview of amendments to the Council
text which are, in our view, necessary to pave the way for a strong
negotiation position in Conciliation. These can be found on the website
<http://www.ffii.org/amend>, and are strongly based on the European
Parliament\'s first reading. As the second reading vote comes nearer,
that site will be updated with analyses of amendments circulated in the
European Parliament.

We hope that the European Parliament will stand its ground in this
procedure, which has brought more people closer to the European decision
making process than ever before, and that it once more will make the
right choices.

Power to the Parliament!

Sincerely yours,
