# Letter from Software Businessperson to Politician before 2004-05-18 Council Vote {#letter_from_software_businessperson_to_politician_before_2004_05_18_council_vote}

## What to do {#what_to_do}

-   Please print something like the following on company letter paper
    and fax it with the attachments (or some of them) to addresses of
    your choice (best) or such as the ones listed at
    -   -   <http://wiki.ael.be/index.php/SwpatMinistersOf25StatesAdresses>,
            [SwpatdeDe](SwpatdeDe "wikilink"),
            [SwpatitIt](SwpatitIt "wikilink"),
            [SwpatconsiliumEn](SwpatconsiliumEn "wikilink").
            Alternatively, if you have already sent a letter, a
            follow-up phone call might be more interesting.

## Related Pages {#related_pages}

-   [SwpatxatraEn](SwpatxatraEn "wikilink") (more messages)
-   [LtrMoreInfo0405En](LtrMoreInfo0405En "wikilink") (a short follow-up
    message/email offering more pointers)

## Proposals

Needless to say, only pick/translate what is applicable to your
situation and what you feel you can credibly argue.

You might also make some of the letters you sent available here.
Assuming your ffii user id is \'pkuhn\' and you write to Hubert Gorbach
in German, you could put your letter on a wiki page called
[LtrPkuhnGorbach0405De](LtrPkuhnGorbach0405De "wikilink") or, if your
letter is reusable for other politicians,
[LtrPkuhnPolit0405De](LtrPkuhnPolit0405De "wikilink").

### Proposal 1 {#proposal_1}

-   Re: Preventing Patentability of \"Computer-Implemented\" Algorithms
    and Business Methods in Brussels on Tuesday
-   Attachments

00 Analysis of Council Proposal [one of the following
papers](pick "wikilink") 000
<http://swpat.ffii.org/papers/europarl0309/cons0401/> 000
<http://www.elis.ugent.be/~jmaebe/swpat/councilanalysis/paper-en.pdf>
000 <http://www.sopinspace.com/~aigrain/en/analysis-compromise.html> 00
[Council Plans to Scrap Parliament\'s Vote without Discussion \-- MEP
Reactions](http://swpat.ffii.org/news/04/cons0507/ "wikilink") 00 [Call
for Action
II](http://swpat.ffii.org/papers/europarl0309/demands/ "wikilink") 00
[The Economic Majority in the Software Patent
Debate](http://swpat.ffii.org/analysis/sektor/ "wikilink") 00 Lucio
Stanca\'s Letter [from one of the following sources](get "wikilink") 000
[Stanca040514En](Stanca040514En "wikilink") 000
<http://swpat.ffii.org/papers/europarl0309/stanca0405/>

Dear M\...

I am writing to you as a professional software developer to bring to
your attention my growing concern over an impending policy decision on
the Software Patents directive by the EU Council this week.

The Irish Presidency seems determined to support a change in European
Patent law which, had it been implemented 15 years ago, would almost
certainly have delayed or even prevented the emergence of the Internet,
and many other innovations with a huge socio-economic impact \[phm: not
a good argument, too speculative, and one could say that patents have
been granted according to similar rules 15 years ago, both in the US and
at the EPO, and the Internet nevertheless came about\].

In September 2003 the European Parliament wisely amended the directive
to prevent patents on pure software, however the current presidency
seems determined to undo these amendements at this week\'s meeting, and
is pushing for an even more damaging version of the directive than was
amended by the Parliament last year. Worryingly, the language in this
new version seems deliberately designed to mislead the reader as to its
actual effect, effectively introducing Software Patents through stealth.
For a detailed analysis of this deceptive rhetoric, please refer to
attachment 1.

For a report about the reactions of members of the European Parliament
and other groups to the text, please refer to attachments 2 and 3.

For some information about the business models in Europe\'s software
industry, please refer to attachment 4.

In attachment 5 you find a comment from Italy\'s minister for technology
and innovation, Lucio Stanca, on the Irish proposal.

A wealth of further information on the subject can be found on
<http://swpat.ffii.org/>, also through the \"Latest News\" link
<http://kwiki.ffii.org/SwpatcninoEn>, which shows growing resistance in
many European capitals against the Irish Presidency\'s plans. We feel
that it should be possible for you to prevent this proposal from being
passed.

If you have any questions, please feel free to ask us.

Yours sincerely

## Proposal 2 (phm) {#proposal_2_phm}

Dear M\...

As an innovative software business, we are afraid of bad policy
decisions that seem to be scheduled to take place in the EU Council next
week and we call on you to prevent these decisions.

The European Parliament voted in September to give our business the
protection which we need, whereas the Irish presidency seems to be
protecting not the interests of the software industry but those of
patent offices, patent lawyers and other people who don\'t write
software but would like to free-ride on the many years which we and many
others have invested in the development of software. Through attempts to
claim that they may patent subject areas in which we presently hold
copyright, these people could clearly be characterized as software
pirates attempting to appropriate our intellectual property \-- the
valid copyright assets which we have accumulated. In any case,
introducing policies that allow algorithms and business methods to be
patented is incredibly foolish. If you take some of their own recitals
at face value, even the Irish Presidency acknowledges this, at least in
appearance.

The Irish Presidency is sponsoring a very vague and misleading text, and
that in itself is a profound scandal. Most of this text was apparently
not written to make us, the software professionals, understand what we
may or may not do as far as what can actually be patented, but rather to
make you, the legislators, misunderstand what you are doing at the
upcoming Council meeting.

For a detailed analysis of the Council text\'s deceptive rhetoric,
please refer to attachment 1.

For a report about the reactions of members of the European Parliament
and other groups to the text, please refer to attachments 2 and 3.

For some information about the business models in Europe\'s software
industry, please refer to attachment 4.

In attachment 5 you find a comment from Italy\'s minister for technology
and innovation, Lucio Stanca, on the Irish proposal.

A wealth of further information on the subject can be found on
<http://swpat.ffii.org/>, also through the \"Latest News\" link
<http://kwiki.ffii.org/SwpatcninoEn>, which shows growing resistance in
many European capitals against the Irish Presidency\'s plans. We feel
that it should be possible for you to prevent this proposal from being
passed.

If you have any questions, please feel free to ask us.

Yours sincerely
