1.  1.  -\*- dok: meijer050319; lang: en; coding: iso-8859-1; mode:
        fundamental; -\*-
    2.  datum: 2005-03-19

# Erik Meijer MEP asks FFII\'s procedural questions to the Council {#erik_meijer_mep_asks_ffiis_procedural_questions_to_the_council}

-\> \[ [ fran√ßais](Meijer050319Fr "wikilink") \] \[ [
Questions](LtrFfiiCons050308En "wikilink") \| [ Adoption
Farce](Cons050307En "wikilink") \| [ Meijer](ErikMeijerEn "wikilink") \|
[ Patent News](SwpatcninoEn "wikilink") \]

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*19 March 2005 \-- Erik Meijer MEP (GUE/NGL) has asked the Council for
thorough clarifications regarding the way it reached its \"Common
Position\" on the software patents directive on 7 March 2005. His
questions are based on the list sent earlier to the Council\'s legal
services by the FFII. This action underwrites the importance for a quick
and serious answer by the Council to these concerns.*

The FFII welcomes this initiative and hopes more parliamentarians, also
from national parliaments, will stress the need for clear and
unambiguous answers to these [ important
questions](LtrFfiiCons050308En "wikilink"). Europe needs a Council of
Ministers which can be held accountable for the decisions it takes, and
the single most important means to guarantee this is transparency of
procedures and sessions.

## Comments

### Jonas Maebe {#jonas_maebe}

According to rule 3.8 of the [ Council\'s Rules of
Procedure](ConsRegl0412En "wikilink"), an A item (a formal point) must
be removed from the agenda if it *might* lead to further discussions.
With 3 governments, 4 national Parliaments and the European Parliament
explicitly asking for renewed discussions, as well as unilateral
statements of concerns from 9 different member states, we think that
this condition was fulfilled.

There is one caveat however: the A item must be removed (and can be
reinstated as a \"B item\" or discussion point), *\"unless the Council
decides otherwise\"*. One of the questions referred to above asks how
the Council decided otherwise, since no such decision was apparent
during the public deliberations. It is now up to the Council to rectify
the situation. Or, to sum it up:

**This is not a Banana Union,** \*/unless the Council decides
otherwise./\*

## Background information {#background_information}

-   [Questions
    1-5](http://swpat.ffii.org/log/05/meijer03/q1-5.pdf "wikilink")
    (pdf)
-   [Questions
    6-11](http://swpat.ffii.org/log/05/meijer03/q6-11.pdf "wikilink")
    (pdf)
-   [Questions
    12-17](http://swpat.ffii.org/log/05/meijer03/q12-17.pdf "wikilink")
    (pdf)
-   [Questions
    18-21](http://swpat.ffii.org/log/05/meijer03/q18-21.pdf "wikilink")
    (pdf)
-   [Questions
    22-25](http://swpat.ffii.org/log/05/meijer03/q22-25.pdf "wikilink")
    (pdf)
