# Questions to be put to MEPS {#questions_to_be_put_to_meps}

related: [MepV0405En](MepV0405En "wikilink"),
[FfiiprojEn](FfiiprojEn "wikilink")

## Slightly Outdated Proposal {#slightly_outdated_proposal}

00 Will you vote against program claims? (e.g. Council Art 5(2)) 00 Will
you vote for freedom of publication? (Art \...) 00 Will you vote for
freedom of interoperation? (Art 6a of Plenary or CULT/ITRE version) 00
Will you vote for exclusion of data processing from \"fields of
technology\" (Art 3a)? 00 Will you vote for definition of \"technology\"
by reference to forces of nature or natural science? 00 Will you vote
for definition of \"industry\" by reference to production of material
goods? 00 Will you support redefinition of \"computer-implemented
invention\" and avoidance of this term?

[ some more questions in swedish](DemoLund0405Sv "wikilink") for debates
with politicians

## French translation of the questions above (JM Le Peuvédic): {#french_translation_of_the_questions_above_jm_le_peuvédic}

00 Allez-vous voter contre les revendications de programmes ? 00
Allez-vous voter pour la liberté de publication ? 00 Allez-vous voter
pour l\'interopérabilité sans contraintes ? \[trad: libre?\] 00
Allez-vous voter pour l\'exclusion des traitements de données du champ
des technologies ? 00 Allez-vous voter pour que la \"technologie\" soit
définie par référence aux forces ou aux sciences de la nature ? 00
Allez-vous voter pour que \"l\'industrie\" soit définie par référence à
la production de biens matériels. 00 Allez-vous supporter la
redéfinition de l\'expression \"inventions implémentées par ordinateur\"
et le bannissement de ce vocable ?

Contact Templin and Kaindl about this issue, they have advanced question
lists.
