# Michael Q. Lee and Software Patents {#michael_q._lee_and_software_patents}

\[ [ Linux Insider](LinuxInsiderEn "wikilink") \]

------------------------------------------------------------------------

US Attorney Michael Q. Lee wrote many opinion pieces for the
journo-lobbying magazine Linuxinsider about the EU software patent
debate.

## Articles

<http://www.linuxinsider.com/story/A-Long-Term-View-Software-Should-Be-Patentable-in-Europe-41921.html>

## Personal Info {#personal_info}

-   [Stern Kessler Goldstein
    Fox](http://www.skgf.com/index.php?page=professionals&action=result&AttorneyID=104 "wikilink")
-   [Honorable Mention in IP Law & Business\' Patent Hall of
    Fame](http://www.ipww.com/fame/honorable.html "wikilink")

## Comments

### Nelson Cruz: {#nelson_cruz}

In the [Honorable Mention in The Patent Hall of
Fame](http://www.ipww.com/fame/honorable.html "wikilink") we can see
what Mr. Lee is all about. He is credited with identifying the \"choke
point\" of a competitor\'s business pipeline and devising a \"silver
bullet patent\" to stop it. It\'s something like finding in what road of
development a competitor is and putting a well placed landmine there.
While Mr. Lee may advocate that patents promote innovation, he in fact
seems to help companies use patents as anti-competitive weapons. He may
do it for small start-up companies like the text says, but it is still
anti-competitive behavior. And we never know on whose hands the patents
he writes may end up during their 20 year life.

Worth mentioning is his favorite \"silver bullet patent\" that he wrote
for 3-Dimensional Pharmaceuticals Inc., a company now owned by Johnson &
Johnson. It covers using computers to analyze potential drug leads. As
the honorable mention goes: *Any company that wants to use computerized
drug discovery has to license the patent. \"When we patented it, people
said \'Wow, I can\'t believe they patented that because it\'s so
broad,\' \" says Lee. \"That means I did my job protecting my client.\"*

That may be, but my guess is somebody at the USPTO didn\'t do his
job\...

Also interesting is the fact that Mr. Lee co-wrote an article called
[\"How to Take Advantage of Business Method
Patents\"](http://www.skgf.com/index.php?page=newsstand&NewsID=21 "wikilink").

Playing by the rules as they presently exist in the US is one thing.
Trying to convince Europe to adopt the same ridiculous and harmful rules
is something else entirely.
