# 2004-06-09 US Raymond: Microsoft patent program is directed against us {#us_raymond_microsoft_patent_program_is_directed_against_us}

\--\> \[ [ News](SwpatcninoEn "wikilink") \| [
Microsoft](SwpatmicrosoftEn "wikilink") \| [ HP forecasts MS
attacks](Campbell040719En "wikilink") \| [
Triviality](SwpatfriliEn "wikilink") \]

------------------------------------------------------------------------

An new
[article](http://www.developerpipeline.com/showArticle.jhtml?articleId=21401729 "wikilink")
quotes free software leaders who express the fear that Microsoft is
preparing to \"use the broken system of software patents to
systematically attack its main competitors\".

Eric Raymond, president of the Open Source Initiative, is quoted as
saying:

` "We are very worried.`\
`  This is aimed directly at us. `\
`  It's a classic Microsoft attempt to crush the competition." `

The article then quotes some people from Public Patent Foundation who
explain that software patentability is OK but the way it is implemented
by the US Patent Office is not.

## Comments

### Hartmut Pilch (FFII) {#hartmut_pilch_ffii}

The article focusses the criticism on the alleged inability of patent
offices of finding prior art and thereby eliminating invalid patents,
which it alleges can be gradually alleviated as patent offices learn to
cope with this \"young technology\". The article fails to acknowledge
that the ability of patents to harm free software is unrelated to the
question of whether these patents are obvious or not by the standards of
the patent system. In fact Microsoft\'s greates potential for inflicting
harm lies in its control of de-facto standards which are covered by its
patents.

The article cites the Public Patent Foundation in testimony of this kind
of view, which has been part of the patent propaganda in the United
States for the last 20 years. It appears from the article that nobody in
the US is currently pointing out that the cited problems are inevitable
results of making software patentable. Even the Public Patent
Foundation, of which Eben Moglen is a director, seems to be reinforcing
propaganda from the patent lobby.

You can find more about the misconceptions on \"good versus bad software
patents\" in the following article

-   [Why Software Patents are so
    trivial](http://swpat.ffii.org/analysis/trivial/index.en.html "wikilink")
