1.  1.  -\*- dok: fish050124; lang: en; coding: iso-8859-1; mode:
        fundamental; -\*-

# Dutch Parliament wants clarity about softwarepatents {#dutch_parliament_wants_clarity_about_softwarepatents}

-\> \[ [ Fish Agenda](Fish0501En "wikilink") \| [
Reversal](ConsReversEn "wikilink") \| [ Poland\'s Last
No](Cons041221En "wikilink") \| [ Restart](EuroparlSwpat04En "wikilink")
\| [ Patent News](SwpatcninoEn "wikilink") \]

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Translation of an
[article](http://webwereld.nl/nieuws/20633.phtml "wikilink") on
[WebWereld](http://webwereld.nl/ "wikilink") by [Brenno de
Winter](http://dewinter.com/ "wikilink")

Wednesday, 26th January 2005.

The Groenlinks (Greens) and SP (Socialists) parties want clarity about
the position of the government regarding software patents soon. A debate
may still follow later.

1.  1.  There is no english word called \"debat\".

MPs Kees Vendrik (!GroenLinks) and Arda Gerkens (SP) asked in a letter
to secretary of state Karien van Gennip where she stands in the software
patent debate.

*\"A lot has happened lately\"*, says Arda Gerkens in an explanation.
*\"Resistance is clearly growing. Poland is clearly against and the
European Parliament wants to restart the procedure.\"*

In the letter - to which an answer is demanded before noon - the
secretary is asked to clarify her position. She also has to say how she
intends to handle this new situation with regard to the motion of MP Van
Dam.

In that motion, the Parliament concluded that Minister Brinkhorst had
misinformed the Parliament. It also called upon the Minister to abstain.
If the anwers of Van Gennip are not satisfactory, a debate about
software patents will be held this Thursday (tomorrow, that likely
means).

Agenda

Earlier this week, the directive was planned to be dealt with in the
agriculture Council, but Poland had it removed from the agenda again.
The country performed a similar action in December, after which the
website [ThankPoland.info](http://thankpoland.info "wikilink") came to
life.

In the meantime, the European Parliament started a motion in order to
restart the whole procedure, because the amendments they approved cannot
be found back in the final proposal. Additionally, the voting weights
have changed because of the expansion of the EU.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Translator\'s note: The last paragraph should be read (with factual
corrections) like this:

In the meantime, the European Parliament started a motion in order to
restart the whole procedure because the amendments it adopted in 1st
reading have not been taken into account by the Council. Also, voting
weights in the Council have changed in November last year because
provisions laid out in the Threaty of Nice took effect.
