# 2004-07-01 NL Text of Motion passed by NL Parliament {#nl_text_of_motion_passed_by_nl_parliament}

\--\> \[ [ nederlands](NlVote040703Nl "wikilink") \] \[ [
News](SwpatcninoEn "wikilink") \| [ NL Vote
2004-07-01](NlVote040701En "wikilink") \| [ NL Parl
2004-07-01](NlParl040701En "wikilink") \| [ NL &
Swpat](SwpatnlEn "wikilink") \| [ Council
Reversal](ConsReversEn "wikilink") \]

------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is the text of the [ motion passed by the Dutch
parliament](NlVote040701En "wikilink") asking the government to withdraw
its vote on software patents.

the Parliament,

having heard the deliberations,

whereas in the Competitiveness Council of 17 and 18 May 2004 a political
agreement was reached about a proposal for a directive concerning the
patentibility of software;

whereas the minister of Economic Affairs on behalf of the Netherlands
has expressed his support for this proposal;

whereas the proposal on essential points departs from the text
previously accepted by the European Parliament;

considering that the minister of Economic Affairs misinformed the
Parliament about the nature of the planned proposal shortly before the
Council meeting, as a result of which the Parliament was unable to
fulfil its controlling task as it should;

considering that a directive about the patentability of software must
lead to harmonisation of legislation within the EU in order to prevent
excesses with regard to the patentability of software;

EXPRESSES its [Parliament\'s](the "wikilink") opinion that the political
agreement as reached at the Competitiveness Council of 17 and 18 May
2004 offered insufficient guarantees to prevent excesses with regard to
software patentability;

CALLS UPON the government to convey this opinion of the Parliament to
the other (EU) member states;

CALLS UPON the government to act according to this opinion in further
discussions of the Council proposal, and from this present moment,
abstain from supporting the current Council proposal,

and proceeds to the order of the day.

The chairman: this motion is proposed by members Van Dam [- Labour
Party](!PvDA "wikilink"), Vendrik \[!GroenLinks - Greens\], Kraneveldt
\[LPF - popular party\] and Giskes \[D66 - Liberal democrats, minister
of economic affairs Brinkhorst\'s party\]. This motion gets number 52
(21501-30).

-   -   VOTE\*\*\*

The chairman: I establish that the present members of the VVD
(right-wing liberals, [Frits
Bolkestein\'s](http://swpat.ffii.org/players/bolkestein/index.en.html "wikilink")
party) voted against this motion and those of the other parties voted in
favour, so that the motion is carried.

(translated by Rishab Aiyer Ghosh from [Tweede
Kamer](http://www.tweedekamer.nl/images/22_36242.doc "wikilink") -
search for 21501-30 for the dutch version\]
