# 2004-07-02 NL Parliament forces Minister to withdraw support from EU Council software patent agreement {#nl_parliament_forces_minister_to_withdraw_support_from_eu_council_software_patent_agreement}

\--\> \[ [ News](SwpatcninoEn "wikilink") \| [
Text](NlVote040703En "wikilink") \| [ NL & Swpat](SwpatnlEn "wikilink")
\| [Short version](http://swpat.ffii.org/news/04/nlparl0701/ "wikilink")
\| [ NL Parl 2004-06-26](NlParlDebate040626En "wikilink") \| [ NL Gov\'t
Letter](NlGovLttrResp040622En "wikilink") \| [ Council
2004-05-18](Cons040518En "wikilink") \]

------------------------------------------------------------------------

On the evening of July 1st, the [Dutch
Parliament](http://www.tweedekamer.nl/ "wikilink") voted to urge the
Minister of Economic Affairs [ Laurens Van
Brinkhorst](LaurensJanBrinkhorstEn "wikilink") and Secretary of State [
Karien van Gennip](KarienVanGennipEn "wikilink") to withdraw the Dutch
vote in support of the [Council\'s text for the Directive on Software
Patents](http:Cons0401En "wikilink").

The idea of allowing patents on software has been strongly criticized
among [SMEs](SMEs "wikilink"), scientists and consumer organisations.
They inhibit investments in Research and Development and contribute to
higher prices.

This act represents an strong criticism of the Council of the EU\'s
attempts to introduce broad patentability of software and label it as a
compromise: Minister Brinkhorst, acting on behalf of the Netherlands,
endorsed the Council\'s current proposal, which not only reiterated the
terms of the European Commission\'s strongly criticized initial
directive proposal, but went even further, directly rebuffing the clear
stance assumed by the European Parliament, which added amendments on
September 24 2003 which lay down strict limitations and which express
that logical algorithms and the ideas found in software cannot be
patented.

This European Parliament\'s 1st reading made clear that patents should
only be allowed for industrial inventions (e.g. washing machines) and
would not be made possible for, what patent law calls computer programs.
These limitations were removed in the negotiations between patent office
representatives which were used as the \"compromise\" by the Council of
the European Union.

The Council endorsed the result of this controversial smoking-room
negotiation which replaced the democratically voted exclusions from the
European Parliament with dummy exclusions which pose no practical
limitation to what patent offices and patent attorneys want. (Which
seems to be a clear signal to empower the EPO to continue it\'s strongy
criticised US-like patenting practise - e.g. see the Amazon gift
ordering patent).

Earlier, Brinkhorst described the Council proposal to the Dutch
Parliament as a compromise with the European Parliament. In recent
legislative debates, Van Gennip was forced to admit that this was
incorrect information, and attributed it to **\"an error in the word
processor.\"**

The Dutch Parliament rejected this explanation and today, it adopted an
historic and groundbreaking decision, calling upon Minister Brinkhorst
and van Gennip to withdraw the Netherlands\' supporting vote in the
Council of the European Union and convert it to an abstention(which in
effect as voting \"no\", only the \"yes\" votes really count).

This is possible because at the moment the Council of the European Union
only has found an \"political agreement\" and the formal adotion of the
common position can only take place after the contested text has been
translated into the 20 European languages.

Dutch Parliament demonstrated the active interest which public holds in
the debate over software patents. Dieter Van Uytvanck, spokesman of FFII
Netherlands, stresses the importance of this decision:

*This political signal reaches much further than just the Netherlands.
We hope that other European countries that also have their doubts about
the proposal of the Council will also withdraw their support, so that
the current proposal no longer has a majority. The historic precedent
has been set now.*

*Let this be a lesson to the lawmakers in Brussels: the European
citizens watch you closely. It is much better to take this into account
from the beginning than to get into trouble later.*

Reports of the earlier debates which the text refers to are available
at:

-   <http://kwiki.ffii.org/NlParlDebate0426En>
-   <http://kwiki.ffii.org/NlGovLttrResp0422En>

## Contact

Wiebe van der Worp wiebe\@vrijschrift.org tel. +31 6 28 195 808

Ir. Arend Lammertink: alam\@home.nl tel. +31 6 5425 6426

Dieter Van Uytvanck: dieter\@vrijschrift.nl tel. +32 499 16 70 10

## The Motion and its supporters {#the_motion_and_its_supporters}

-   [ Translation of the motion](NlMot040701En "wikilink")

### Supporters of the Motion {#supporters_of_the_motion}

The following parties supported this motion (with nr. of seats):

\|\| CDA \|\| 44 \|\| Christian democrats \|\| \|\| PvdA \|\| 42 \|\|
social democrats \|\| \|\| SP \|\| 9 \|\| left-wing, GUE/NGL \|\| \|\|
GL \|\| 8 \|\| green party \|\| \|\| LPF \|\| 8 \|\| popular party \|\|
\|\| D66 \|\| 6 \|\| left-wing liberals \|\| \|\| CU \|\| 3 \|\|
christian, EDD \|\| \|\| SGP \|\| 2 \|\| christian, EDD \|\|

### Opponents of the Motion {#opponents_of_the_motion}

Only 1 party, to which [ Bolkestein](SwpatbolkesteinEn "wikilink")
belongs:

\| VVD \| 28 \| right wing liberals \|

## Media Echo {#media_echo}

-   [slashdot.org: Dutch Parliament Reverses Software Patent
    Vote](http://slashdot.org/article.pl?sid=04/07/02/1318220&mode=thread "wikilink")
-   <http://www.pressetext.ch/pte.mc?pte=040702028> (simplifies, it\'s
    the parliament, not the government)
-   <http://www.groklaw.net/article.php?story=20040702085542832> (very
    short main article)
-   [pcpro.uk: Support for software patents faltering in
    Europe](http://www.pcpro.co.uk/news/news_story.php?id=60071 "wikilink")
-   [pcpro.uk: ANALYSIS: Software patents - divide and
    rule](http://www.pcpro.co.uk/news/news_story.php?id=60051 "wikilink")
-   [The Inquirer: Dutch Parliament causes EU software patents
    crisis](http://www.theinquirer.net/?article=16984 "wikilink")
