# Nosoftwarepatents Campaign Proposals {#nosoftwarepatents_campaign_proposals}

-\> \[ [ Priorities](FfiiprojPriorEn "wikilink") \| [
Plan](FfiiPlan0510En "wikilink") \]

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*The Nosoftwarepatents.com campaign platform became a great success in a
short time. The intensive work put into it by its founder Florian
Mueller paid off in terms of high visibility in media and search
engines. When Florian handed the platform over to FFII in April 2005, it
visibly declined, because nobody was able to put in the same
concentrated work. We now have chances that Peter Gerwinski will revive
it, but this requires permanent financial commitments.*

## Action Items from Peter Gerwinski {#action_items_from_peter_gerwinski}

### Most urgent: update the texts to cope with recent developments {#most_urgent_update_the_texts_to_cope_with_recent_developments}

With the removal of the \"Appeal to the EU Council\", the most pressing
update has been done, but much more work is needed. Developments like
the Community Patent have to be taken into account, and some of the
texts need updates on a regular basis \-\-- some of which may be subtle
but make a big difference.

### [NoSoftwarePatents](NoSoftwarePatents "wikilink").com Award {#nosoftwarepatents.com_award}

After studying the plans by Harald Talarczyk, and comparing them to
similar campaigns I conducted in the past (Patent Party, Patent
Infringing Programming Contest), I concluded that they can be led to a
success, provided that we do the hard work and make good use of our
resources.

### \"Call for Action IV\" fax signature campaign {#call_for_action_iv_fax_signature_campaign}

In June/July, I successfully managed a fax signature campaign for the
\"Call for Action III\". Nonwithstanding the tight time frame, this
resulted in an impressive stack of paper displaying 651 signatures. Now,
with more time and with a well-established platform like
[NoSoftwarePatents](NoSoftwarePatents "wikilink").com, we can easily
collect several 1000 paper(!) signatures that can be handed over, for
instance, to the Council of Ministers in the presence of journalists.

Note from phm: The planned [ Call for Action IV](Cpedu0510En "wikilink")
should summarize the basic programmatic agenda for which FFII receives a
mandate from its supporters.

## Patent Sites created by Peter Gerwinski so far {#patent_sites_created_by_peter_gerwinski_so_far}

-   <http://europarl.ffii.org/>
-   <http://patinfo.ffii.org>
