# Olga Zrihen MEP calls for Demonstration in Front of Irish Representation in Brussels {#olga_zrihen_mep_calls_for_demonstration_in_front_of_irish_representation_in_brussels}

\--\> [ francais](OZrihen040514Fr "wikilink"); [
News](SwpatcninoEn "wikilink"), [ Zrihen](OlgaZrihenEn "wikilink"), [
Ireland](SwpatieEn "wikilink"), [ No Sponsors for
NL](PresNl040609En "wikilink")

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Related Pages {#related_pages}

-   [Pictures from the
    Event](http://bh.udev.org/filez/photos/NanoDemoIreland17May04/ "wikilink")
-   [Irish Presidency
    Sponsors](http://www.eu2004.ie/sitetools/sponsorship.asp "wikilink")

## \"Microsoft, a sponsor for the presidency of the EU?\" {#microsoft_a_sponsor_for_the_presidency_of_the_eu}

At the initiative of [ Olga Zrihen](OlgaZrihenEn "wikilink"), Member of
the European Parliament from the Belgian PS, of the internet section of
the French socialist party \"!TemPS réels\" and of the VOV, Virtueller
Ortsverein, the German virtual section SPD, a protest action will take
place in front of the permanent representation of Ireland to the
European Union this Monday, 17 May 2004 at 1300 (Rue Froissart 89, 1040
Bruxelles), during which CD-ROM containing free software will be
distributed, notably to the Irish diplomats, as a signal of the
existence of a free european alternative to the monopoly of the American
company, Microsoft.

The European draft legislation on software patents, crucial for the
future of the European information industry, after the first lecture of
the European Parliament, that substantially amended the initial
proposition of commissioner Bolkestein, is on the agenda of the
\"competitiveness\" council of ministers of the 17 of May. This proposal
for a directive directly puts in confrontation the material interests of
the [SMEs that comprise the bulk of the European software
industry](http://swpat.ffii.org/analysis/sektor/ "wikilink") to that of
the big multinationals, such as the American Microsoft.

Now we note that, Microsoft officially sponsors the Irish presidency of
the European Union . According to Olga Zrihen, member of the European
parliament Belgian socialist party, \"We have the right to question this
situation: the presidency of the EU, which is a central element of the
European legislative process, and is supposed to obey the democratic
principles, accepts to be sponsored by a private company whose economic
interests are directly put into cause by a legislative proposition on
the agenda of the Council! Furthermore, knowing that the \"compromise\"
proposal emanating from the Irish presidency rejects all of the European
parliament\'s first lecture amendments, which corresponds to the demands
of Microsoft, there is a feeling of great worry.\"

A press conference is to be held later at 15h00 at the European
parliament. A contribution of European socialists for the democratic
control of the information technologies will be presented by Olga
Zrihen, member of the European parliament in collaboration with Maurice
Ronai, a national delegate to information society\'s issues for the
French socialist party, Thierry Noisette, the secretary of the internet
section of the French social party \"!TemPS réels\" and Arne Brand, a
spokesman of VOV (Virtueller Ortsverein, the virtual section of the
German SPD).

## Contact person {#contact_person}

Antonio Gambini, parliamentary assistant of Olga Zrihen MEP: (+32)
(0)479.48.28.78

`Olga ZRIHEN, Députée Européenne`\
`Assistant Parlementaire: Antonio GAMBINI`\
`Parlement Européen`\
`Rue Wiertz`\
[`ASP12G108`](ASP12G108 "wikilink")\
`Tel: 00 322 284 60 94`\
`Fax: 00 322 284 94 51`\
`B-1047 Bruxelles`
