1.  1.  -\*- dok:
        [PlenRemainingRecitals0507](PlenRemainingRecitals0507 "wikilink");
        lang: en; coding: iso-8859-1; mode: fundamental; -\*-
    2.  datum: 2005-07-03
    3.  title: Plenary Amendments: Remaining Recitals

# Plenary Amendments: Remaining Recitals {#plenary_amendments_remaining_recitals}

-\> \[ [ Amendments](Plen05En "wikilink") \| [ Voting
List](PlenVotingList0507En "wikilink") \| [
Analysis](PlenAmend0507En "wikilink") \]

------------------------------------------------------------------------

-   Recitals 19 - 21a
-   Baseline: Council text
    [pdf](http://register.consilium.eu.int/pdf/en/04/st11/st11979-re01.en04.pdf "wikilink")

## Recital 19 {#recital_19}

### Scope of directive {#scope_of_directive}

\|\| number \|\| submitter \|\| recommendation \|\| text \|\| \|\|
\*\*\* \|\| Council \|\| () \|\| This Directive should be limited to
laying down certain principles as they apply to the patentability of
such inventions, such principles being intended in particular to ensure
that inventions which belong to a field of technology and make a
technical contribution are susceptible of protection, and conversely to
ensure that those inventions which do not make a technical contribution
are not susceptible of protection. \|\| \|\| 58 = 90 = 111 = 132 = 153 =
176 (S) \|\| Rocard *Buzek 19 \|\| + \|\| /deleted* \|\|

The Council text claims there are non-technical inventions. The rest of
this amendment does not really anything useful.

## Recital 20 {#recital_20}

### Effect on Community competitiveness {#effect_on_community_competitiveness}

\| number \| submitter \| recommendation \| text \| \| \*\*\* \| Council
\| () \| The competitive position of Community industry in relation to
its major trading partners will be improved if the current differences
in the legal protection of computer-implemented inventions are
eliminated and the legal situation is transparent. With the present
trend for traditional manufacturing industry to shift their operations
to low-cost economies outside the Community, the importance of
intellectual property protection and in particular patent protection is
self-evident. \| \| 10 \| JURI 10 \| + \| The competitive position of
Community industry in relation to its major trading partners will be
improved if the current differences in the legal protection of
computer-implemented inventions are eliminated and the legal situation
is transparent. \|

The JURI amendment removes the unfounded conclusion that patents on
software or CAI\'s help protect against outsourcing of manufacturing.

## Recital 20 a (new) {#recital_20_a_new}

### [SMEs](SMEs "wikilink") and monitoring {#smes_and_monitoring}

\| number \| submitter \| recommendation \| text \| \| 11 \| JURI 11 \|
+/- \| Small- and medium-sized enterprises are essential to the economic
success and global competitiveness of the European Union and its Member
States. Intellectual property rights benefit small and medium-sized
enterprises just as they do larger entities. To ensure that this
Directive advances the interests of [SMEs](SMEs "wikilink"), a Committee
on Technological Innovation in the Small- and Medium-sized Enterprise
Sector should be formed. This Committee should focus on patent-related
issues relevant to such enterprises and should bring these issues to the
attention of the Commission as necessary. \|

The blanket assertion that all !IPRs benefit !SMEs is dangerous in a
legal document that will be interpreted by the European Court of
Justice. Some !IPRs help !SMEs; other !IPRs (especially software
patents) can be damaging. This sentence would therefore be better
removed from the recital.

## Recitals 20 a\' and 20 b (new) {#recitals_20_a_and_20_b_new}

### Interoperability

\| number \| submitter \| recommendation \| text \| \| 69 \|
Mann/McCarthy \| + \| (recognised standard-setting organisation) \| \|
70 \| Mann/McCarthy \| + \| (fair reasonable and non-discriminatory
licensing) \|

-   See discussion under [
    interoperability](PlenInterop0507En "wikilink")

## Recital 21 {#recital_21}

### Competition law {#competition_law}

\| number \| submitter \| recommendation \| text \| \| \*\*\* \| Council
\| () \| This Directive should be without prejudice to the application
of the competition rules, in particular Articles 81 and 82 of the
Treaty, in particular where a dominant supplier refuses to allow the use
of a patented technique which is needed for the sole purpose of ensuring
conversion of the conventions used in two different computer systems or
networks so as to allow communication and exchange of data content
between them. \| \| 12 \| JURI 12 \| + \| This Directive should be
without prejudice to the application of the competition rules, in
particular Articles 81 and 82 of the Treaty. \|

Articles 81 and 82 are relevant to all anticompetitive practices; but it
should not be imagined that competition law in itself is sufficient to
fix the particular problems for interoperability.

## Recital 21 a (new) {#recital_21_a_new}

### Monitoring

\| number \| submitter \| recommendation \| text \| \| 13 \| JURI 13
\| - \| Patents play an important role in European innovation. To ensure
effective functioning of the patent system, it is important to monitor
developments in this sector, including developments involving patents on
computer-implemented inventions. To this end, relevant data should be
gathered and appropriate reports produced. Such reports should include
information pertaining specifically to participation by small- and
medium-sized enterprises in the system of patents for
computer-implemented inventions. \|

Mostly harmless, but has no place in a EU legislative texts.
