[ DEUTSCH](ShortIntroDe "wikilink") \|
[GREEK](http://epatents.hellug.gr/pages/short_introduction "wikilink")
\| [ FRANÃ‡AIS](ShortIntroFr "wikilink") \| [
ITALIANO](ShortIntroIT "wikilink") \| [
PORTUGUESE](ShortIntroPT "wikilink") \| [ New
Version](ShortIntroAltEn "wikilink")

Before editing or translating this document, please read
[ShortIntroDiscussionEn](ShortIntroDiscussionEn "wikilink")

------------------------------------------------------------------------

# Software Patents in Europe: A Short Overview {#software_patents_in_europe_a_short_overview}

A **patent** is a right to monopolize an invention. A \"inventor\"
specifies a scope of activities from which he wants to exclude others
(the claims, implementing what one of them says is enough for an
infringement), and submits it to the Patent Office, which evaluates
whether these claims depict an *invention* within the sense of the law
and whether the invention is correctly disclosed and industrially
applicable (formal examination). Some patent offices will moreover
examine whether the invention is new and non-obvious (substantive
examination). If the application passes the examination hurdles, the
Patent Office grants the applicant the exclusion right to prevent others
from producing and marketing the invention for a period of 20 years.

Programming is similar to writing symphonies. When a programmer writes
software, he weaves together thousands of ideas (algorithms or
calculation rules) into a copyrighted work. Usually some of the ideas in
the programmer\'s work will be new and non-obvious according to the
([inherently low](http://swpat.ffii.org/analysis/trivial/ "wikilink"))
standards of the patent system. When many such ideas are patented, it
becomes [impossible to write
software](http://webshop.ffii.org/ "wikilink") without infringing on
patents. Software authors are in effect deprived of their copyright
assets; they live under permanent threat of being [blackmailed by
holders of large patent
portfolios](http://www.forbes.com/asap/2002/0624/044.html "wikilink").
As a result, less software is written and fewer new ideas appear.

In Europe, the uniform rules for what is patentable and what is not are
laid out in the [European Patent Convention of
1973](http://www.european-patent-office.org/legal/epc/ "wikilink"). In
Article 52, the Convention
[states](http://swpat.ffii.org/analysis/epc52/ "wikilink") that
mathematical methods, intellectual methods, business methods, computer
programs, presentation of information, etc., are not inventions in the
sense of patent law. There is a systematic reason for that: in the legal
tradition patents have been for concrete applications of natural science
(\"[technical
inventions](http://swpat.ffii.org/analysis/invention/ "wikilink")\"),
whereas patents on software cover abstract ideas. When patents are
applied to software, the result is such that instead of patenting a
specific mousetrap, you are actually patenting any \"means of trapping
mammals\" (or, for an example of an actual patent, any \"[means of
trapping data in an emulated
environment](http://swpat.ffii.org/patents/samples/ep769170/index.en.html "wikilink")\").

In 1986 the European Patent Office (EPO) [started granting patents
describing computer programs in violation of the
EPC](http://swpat.ffii.org/papers/epo-t840208/index.en.html "wikilink")
by allowing them to be presented in the guise of *process claims*,
typically phrased as follows:

\"1. process for [general-purpose computing
equipment](using "wikilink"), characterised by \...\"

The patents granted on this basis were described as hypothetical, based
on the notion that the program as such, when distributed on a disk or
via the Internet, could be held as not constituting a process and
therefore as not an invention in that sense. In 1998 the European Patent
Office \"resolved\" this ambiguity and [began granting patents that
literally contradicted the
law](http://swpat.ffii.org/papers/epo-t971173/ "wikilink"), by allowing
*program claims* using the following phrasing:

\"2. computer program, characterised by that [its help a process
according to claim 1 can be executed](with "wikilink").\"

The EPO has granted [more than
30,000](http://swpat.ffii.org/patents/stats/index.en.html "wikilink")
pure software patents in this manner, and the number has been rising at
a rate of 3,000 per year.

Most of these patents are broad and trivial and not significantly
different from corresponding types of patents that the US and Japan have
been allowing. In fact the three patent offices have created a common
[\"Trilateral
Standard\"](http://swpat.ffii.org/players/useujp/ "wikilink") for
granting such patents in May 2000, summarised under the misleading term
\"computer-implemented inventions.\" The pro-software patent lobby has
been publicly asserting that patenting \"computer-implemented
inventions\" is somehow different from patenting software \"as such.\"
But these differences are
[insignificant](http://swpat.ffii.org/papers/eubsa-swpat0202/tech/ "wikilink").

Some commentators distract attention from the nature of the code that
executes on a computer, by stating that no clear distinction can be made
between \"hardware\" and \"software.\" However, the distinction that
applies has to do with the nonpatentability of **/abstraction/**, not
with the physical way code is expressed. A unique piece of hardware, a
computer, is now available for all to use, and it was designed to
automate abstract logic by providing **/generic logical functions/**
which can be executed by providing it with instructions that are
inherently abstract themselves. The presence of this unique generic
logic device in our lives is what has brought about the need to assure
that the implications of software for patent policy are honored and
acknowledged. Code is certainly embodied in physical form, but it is a
**/representation/** of abstract ideas, just as surely as written
mathematical calculations are.

In August 2000 the European Patent Organisation, i.e. the
intergovernmental organisation that runs the European Patent Office,
**/attempted to delete all the exclusions listed under Art 52 of the
European Patent Convention/**. Due to public resistance which they
apparently did not anticipate, this effort failed.

In 2002, the European Commission\'s Directorate for the Internal Market
(under Monti\'s successor Frits Bolkestein) submitted [proposal
2002/0047](http://swpat.ffii.org/papers/eubsa-swpat0202/ "wikilink"),
for a Directive \"on the patentability of computer-implemented
inventions.\" This proposal was claimed to serve the purposes of
harmonizing Member State laws and clarifying some details with the aim
of preventing excesses of the EPO, and it did not literally allow
program claims. However, an attentive reading shows that it is actually
designed to **/codify the EPO\'s practice/** regardless of its unsound
legal foundation, and to *\*remove explicit limits on patentability
under the law\**.

On September 24, 2003, the [European Parliament as a whole (plenary
assembly)
voted](http://swpat.ffii.org/news/03/plen0924/index.en.html "wikilink")
to incorporate [a set of amendments into the
Directive](http://swpat.ffii.org/papers/europarl0309/index.en.html "wikilink")
that actually accomplished what the Commission had pretended to aim for:
it clarified and harmonised the rules, reaffirming the non-patentability
of programming and business logic and upholding freedom of publication
and interoperation. This set of amendments was based on a year of work
in the Parliament\'s committees for
[Culture](http://swpat.ffii.org/papers/eubsa-swpat0202/cult0212/ "wikilink")
and
[Industry](http://swpat.ffii.org/papers/eubsa-swpat0202/itre0212/ "wikilink").
However the Directive has been considered to belong within the domain of
the *Legal Affairs Committee* (JURI), which is dominated by !MEPs with
close affinity to the patent establishment. JURI ignored the proposals
of the other committees and proposed a set of [fake limits on
patentability](http://swpat.ffii.org/news/03/juri0617/ "wikilink"), in
an attempt to fool the plenary assembly.

Pursuant to the European Union\'s *Codecision Procedure*, the amended
proposal was next examined by the Council of Ministers. Within the
Council, the \"Working Party on Intellectual Property (Patents)\" is in
charge of the dossier. This group consists of exactly the same members
as the Administrative Council of the European Patent Office: the patent
office administrators from the national governments.

After a few months of secret negotiations, the \"Working Party\"
produced a [\"compromise
document\"](http://swpat.ffii.org/papers/europarl0309/cons0401/index.en.html "wikilink")
that **/removed all of the Parliament\'s limiting amendments and
reinstated the Commission\'s proposal/** and additionally **/explicitly
allowed program claims (Art 5(2)) and disallowed any interoperability
privilege within patent law (Rec 17) while inserting some fake limits
from JURI (Art 4A etc)/**, resulting in the most extreme and
uncompromising proposal yet. Access to this document was denied until
the very last minute \"due to the sensitive nature of the negotiations
and the absence of an overriding public interest.\"

On 18 May 2004, the Council [approved the Working Party\'s text (with
some cosmetic modifications) by a slim
majority](http://kwiki.ffii.org/?Cons040518En "wikilink") despite the
apparent intention of a number of countries to follow Germany\'s lead in
promising to vote against it. In that session, Germany claimed to be
satisfied by a meaningless amendment; the Netherlands supported the
document while admitting that it might be problematic; and Commissioner
Frits Bolkestein inserted an amendment in Article 4 which, he claimed,
clearly made software unpatentable, when in fact his phrasing merely
reasserted deceptive terminology and **/Article 5(2), by allowing
program claims, unambiguously states the exact opposite/**. In the press
conference that followed the Council vote, Bolkestein failed to offer
any examples of software that would not be patentable pursuant to the
proposal.

The European Parliament has to have at least 367 \"yes\"-votes
(=absolute majority of the 732 seats, no less) on all critical
amendments to make sure that there are no holes left in the text which
would in turn result in affirming the 30.000 already granted patents and
allow the patent offices to go even further.

## Background information {#background_information}

-   [How to draft a software
    patent](http://digital-law-online.info/lpdi1.0/treatise68.html "wikilink")
