1.  1.  -\*- dok: spdgruen0410; lang: en; coding: iso-8859-1; mode:
        fundamental; -\*-

# 2004-10-20 DE Government Parties prepare Motion against Software Patents {#de_government_parties_prepare_motion_against_software_patents}

\--\> \[ [ deutsch](Spdgruen0410De "wikilink") \] \[
[original](http://swpat.ffii.org/papers/europarl0309/spdgruen0410/spdgruen041019.pdf "wikilink")
\| [ ffii comment](ParlReso0410De "wikilink") \| [ Germany &
Swpat](SwpatdeEn "wikilink") \| [ Council
Reversal](ConsRevers04En "wikilink") \| [ News](SwpatcninoEn "wikilink")
\]

------------------------------------------------------------------------

An resolution proposal of the Red/Green governing coalition on software
is due for publication on wednesday 2004-10-27. It is there now:

-   <http://swpat.ffii.org/papers/europarl0309/spdgruen0410/spdgruen041019.pdf>

German media have partially already reported about this motion and
quoted excerpts from its preamble. See [ German
version](Spdgruen0410De "wikilink").

The paper is similar in content to the paper of the opposing Christian
Democrats. After a preamble part criticises the [ Council\'s political
agreement of May](Cons040518En "wikilink") and applauds the [vote of the
European Parliament of September
2003](http://swpat.ffii.org/papers/europarl0309/ "wikilink")
(accompanied by some ambiguous dogmatic statements which show a
continuing influence of patent lawyer thinking in the parliament), it
contains a series of demands to the government which, if followed, would
indeed force the leading ministry of justice to alter its course.

One can only speculate about how the ministry would react.

So far the MoJ has been the most radical pro-software-patent lobby
bastion in Germany (more radical than e.g. the patent departments of
large companies, possibly because this ministry bears a great part of
the responsibility for the questionable reinterpretations of Art 52 EPC
that have resulted in the granting of more than 30,000 broad and trivial
software patents by the EPO).

It would be surprising if the cold war between ministry and parliament,
which has been observed in the [ Netherlands](SwpatnlEn "wikilink") for
years, could be ended quickly by this show of parliamentary unanimity in
Germany.
