# 2004 Phil Albert, US Patent attorney, on \"viral licenses\" {#phil_albert_us_patent_attorney_on_viral_licenses}

\--\> \[ [ Infosphere News](DatnicninoEn "wikilink") \]

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Phil Albert write a lot of articles for !LinuxInsider and stresses
license problems with \"viral\" gpl licenses.

[2004-06-29 Shocking Behavior and Smart Open-Source
Policy](http://www.linuxinsider.com/story/34822.html "wikilink"):\"Smart
policies are not written by attorneys in a vacuum. They need input from
developers and business teams who have done their due diligence. Be
smart. Do your homework ahead of time, well before drafting your
open-source corporate policy. If you do, the chances are good you won\'t
be \"shocked\" to learn that your policy may not be relevant at all.\"

[2004-06-22 Beyond the Buzz: Open Source and
Biotech](http://www.linuxinsider.com/story/34639.html "wikilink"): What
is needed is some sort of downstream constraint to prevent the
\"proprietization\" of biotechnology. Because copyrights are not
implicated much in biotech, the downstream constraint should probably be
based in **patents**. While obtaining a patent is much more expensive
than obtaining a copyright, the cost of protection in either case would
typically be only a small fraction of the cost of making the development
in the first place.

[2004-06-15 Can Sun Emulate Linux by Open-Sourcing
Solaris?](http://www.linuxinsider.com/story/34487.html "wikilink"):
\"Another is that Linux is licensed under a \"modified GPL license.\"
Because the text of the GPL is arguably ambiguous, the interpretation of
the terms by different licensors creates legally different licenses from
the same words. Under the modified GPL license, it is not clear exactly
when a derivative work is created. \"

[2004-06-04 The EULA, the GPL and the Wisdom of Fortune
Cookies](http://www.linuxinsider.com/story/34292.html "wikilink")

[2004-05-25 GPL: Viral Infection or Just Your
Imagination](http://www.linuxinsider.com/story/33968.html "wikilink"):
\"Most of us are afraid of getting infected with a virus, whether it
comes from a common cold or an attachment in our e-mail. \[..\] Just as
a computer virus cannot jump out and infect a person, license terms that
apply to one software program cannot simply jump to another software
program. The viral nature of open-source licensing nearly always applies
to the General Public License. This is in part due to the terms of the
GPL and also partly due to the position statements made by the authors
of the GPL.
