= A very brief overview of Czech EP representatives (FIXME) =

ODS (The Civic Democratic Party) won 2004 Czech votes to EP. It is a
right-wing party which is currently in opposition in the national Czech
parliament. Members of this party have often criticised bureaucracy in the EU.
All 9 members of this party belong to Group of the European People's Party
(Christian Democrats) and European Democrats fractions. They have one seat in the JURI (Jaroslav Zverina).

The Christian Democratic Union - Czechoslovak People's Party, a member of
coalition in the Czech Parliament, has gained 2 seats. It is a right-center
party. Their MEPs are in Group of the European People's Party (Christian
Democrats) and European Democrats.

The Social Democratic Party, the chief party of Czech government, has gained
only 2 seats. Richard Falbr is a former chairman of Czech labour union and
(judging from his speeches and commentaries in Czech media) should be open to
discussion.  Both MEPs are members of the Socialist Group.

The Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia has gained 6 seats. Their MEPs
belong to the Confederal Group of the European United Left - Nordic Green Left
group. They have one seat in the JURI (Daniel Stroz).

There are 3 MEPs belonging to European Democrats (FIXME: There is 
a difference between Association of Independents - European Democrats and
European Democrats, but I can't recall the details) who are in the Group 
of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.

Two representatives of the Czech Republic are a bit difficult to analyse. Jana
Bobosikova (Non-Attached Members) and Vladimir Zelezny (Independence/Democracy
Group) used to be important figures in the Czech media. Mr. Zelezny is a former
director of largest Czech private TV, where Mrs. Bobosikova used to host
political discussions. I have no idea what their position towards patents is.

I can only guess what are the relationships between the MEPs and Czech
government, but communication probably isn't ideal, noting the low number of
government MEPs.
