= Transcription from EPO ITRE, 2005-03-30 =

NOTE: To prevent collisions, don't let a long time pass between clicking "Edit" and "Save". Prepare your contribution in an editor, then Edit, Paste, Save. Thanks.

----

=== A (track5, 10:38) ===

Let me first try to address the first question that you posed, whether 
data processing should be totally excluded from being protectable by
patents. I think that if a technical problem---in the sense that we 
have discussed what 'technical' might be perceived to be---if a
technical problem is being solved partly or totally with the help of 
modern computer technology, for instance, data processing, then the
fact that it is this technology that has been used to solve the
problem should not automatically exclude this subject matter from
protection by patent. 

In other words, modern technology has paved the way for solving 
problems that were not perceivable when the patent law was written 
down, by means of a computer program. This doesn't change
automatically the fact that these solutions are worth to be protected;
they are solutions to technical problems, they are in principle
subject matter which is not excluded by the exclusions of patent law,
and in this sense the patent protection should be accessible to them.
So the answer to your question is that if we were to exclude totally 
whatever is been performed by data processing from patent protection,
then we wouldn't act in the sense of the people who wrote the law. It 
was at that time, when the patent law was written, and that was the 
seventies, and in the seventies a computer program had certain limited 
functionality and you could even read the code of a computer program,
for instance an old COBOL program, and you could even understand what
it does. The functionality that is been able to offer today with the
help of a computer program has dramatically changed, and it would be
not in the sense of the legislator if we would automatically exclude 
from patent protection whatever functionality can be achieved nowadays
by means of modern computer technology.

(Question/clarification barely heard, containing the word "synergy".)

I am not a lawyer, and therefore I will not tell you anything which
you might think that this is an official opinion of a lawyer; it's
my personal view. Modern industrial property, and the efficient
regulation of modern industrial property, takes a little more than
just patent law---that's my personal view---and I see that there is a
huge potential in regulating the field in a synergy between the patent
law on one side and other forms, other possibilities, other legal
possibilities available nowadays, and one of them is competition law.
That's my personal view.

=== Q (track 5, 14:28) ===

I'm still uneasy about the answer I got about the disclosure, full
disclosure. I think that the last answer was referring to the programs
from the seventies is just a confirmation of that; actually, at that
time, we had full disclosure, so we could go through a program and see
the specific steps, and somehow it might have been ground 4 issuing a
patent. Right now I think that things have become more complex, but
still source code is source code and all the experts could go through
the source code and see what is there. And of course a patent is full
disclosure of the invention, and I don't think that we should make any
exception, and of course this kind of work of thought could be
protected by copyright. So full disclosure would actually shift to
copyright for appropriate protection for this kind of work of mind,
and leave of course more clear the field to device implemented
invention, and that would me more or less automatic. On the other
hand, we need, for security reasons, we do need to know the source
code we are using, because we are not sure that in some line there is
something that can be addressed from the outside and kill our
computers.

=== A (track6, 01:50) ===

There is a lot of arguments used in favour of disclosing the source
code. As I said, what is necessary under the existing patent law,
'sufficient disclosure' means that the invention has to be disclosed
to a person skilled in the art in a manner to enable him to carry out
the invention. This is a good example of synergy between patent law
and copyright law: copyright law is there for protecting the form, the
expression which may find itself realized in form of source code, of
object code, or other kinds of description of software. So you enjoy
copyright protection under the conditions of the old European
directive now implemented in the entire Europe. You have full
protection on the source code, and on the other hand you could have
protection on the idea, the technical idea of making a certain
process (?) carrying out an invention which makes use of a computer, a
computer network etc. So the two systems coexist, necessarily they
coexist. You have the patent, and the invention patented may be
carried out by using different forms of computer programs, not only
the source code disclosed in the application, wherever this would be
necessary, but you can use it in different ways, you can use higher
languages to implement one invention in many many different ways, and
then, you enjoy, in addition to patent protection, you may enjoy
copyright protection for this program. But the patent itself would be
enforceable against a user which would use the invention as disclosed,
without even using a program which may be described in the
application.

That's the synergy. This is, I think, the most important thing: the
patent system is not there to disclose and to make available anything
in terms of source code, so that you have a database of all source
codes used and developed. You will never be sure that this is a system
which completely discloses every source code used for whatever
purpose. This was the idea of a sui generis protection for software
discussed in the framework of WPO to create a database of all source
codes, object codes etc. were ever produced, in order to get copyright
protection, by the way, not patent protection. So I think we have a
good case of synergy between two systems, copyright and patent law,
and, on the other hand, there are clear limits of disclosing the
source code in patent applications.

=== Q (track6, 05:05) ===

Just before we conclude, I think the President wants to say a few
words, but I also really wanted you perhaps to address a more global
issue. I think sometimes there is a view that patents are really only
there for big business, and that SME's don't have advantages, or the
same advantages, as multinationals, perhaps, and I wondered what the
EPO is doing to try and redress this imbalance and to make sure that
generally small and medium sized companies have access to patent
protection as well.

=== A (track6, 05:33) ===

For this specific issue there is two aspects. One aspect is access of
(?) patent information for SME. The second one is that we have a
European Patent Academy to train all the SME (?) in managing patent
portfolio. The third one is that we are training also people in order
that they use the (?) tools to know patent information.

''[[Editor |note: In this world there are three types of people: those who can count and those who can't.]]''

These are the main issues and we will have a meeting with SME's to
better know what are the needs in terms of patent information and
patent portfolio assessement.

So the other thing I would like to say is that, first, we could have a
whole seminar for the whole day with more comfortable facilities, but
nevertheless we are ready before the adoption of the directive to
organise a meeting with and next four which will be more properly
targeted to the directive on cii. We will have more facilities because
it seems that many people are interested (?) first point, and we are
willing to interact with all movement involved in the drafting of this
directive. That's the first point. The second point is that I would
like to remind the fact that it's the policy of EPO in patenting cii
is no patent on pure software, first point; no patent on business
methods; and no patent on algorithms per se. I think these are the
three main messages that you should keep in mind, and if you want more
information, go to the patent presentation, the exhibition we have in
the third floor, you will have all the leaflet and documents that you
need, and there is one specific document on cii. Thank you again for
organising and giving the opportunity to have this seminar here, in
the real heart where the second lecture of the directive will occur.
Thank you very much.

=== (track6, 07:59) ===

Thank you. To conclude, I think we've really only skimmed the surface
of some of these issues. I think there are a lot more in-depth
questions that we would want to ask, and I would be very grateful for
the circulation of the papers that your colleagues have given and
including your speech, and I'm sure that you will be accessible for
people to follow up on the specific questions [[they |will have]].

[[some |discussion on powerpoints, business cards etc.]]
