= FFII-UK: UKPO 'Facts and Fiction' is all fiction =

=== press release ===

FFII-UK deplores the continuing misinformation presented in the recent
Fact and Fiction document distributed by the UKPO. The document
continues to peddle old fictions, presents hardly a shred of evidence
and continues to promote the patentability of software which threatens
innovation both in the UK and across Europe.

This is particularly unfortunate given the document's clear
acknowledgement that the patent system only exists to promote innovation
- which is not the case in software where patents threaten rather than
promote innovation.

The document is simply a summary of all fallacies spread by proponents
of software patents until now. The requirement for a "technical
contribution", which is supposed to prevent pure software and business
method patents, is toothless. Such a technical contribution is already
required today by the European Patent Office, and can consist of
something like reducing the number of necessary mouse clicks to buy
something. A whole list of granted business method patents which make
a "technical contribution" can be seen at http://webshop.ffii.org.

The Commission and Council proposals merely codify this practice, and
as such would make sure that such patents would become uniformly
enforceable throughout Europe.

We are also concerned that a supposedly neutral, government funded,
administrative agency is taking such as strongly partisan role in this
debate, particularly given the inherent conflict of interest in the
Patent Offices' role that encompasses providing impartial advice while
simultaneously having a significant stake in the resulting outcomes.
