= Debugging some Fake Limits of Patentability in the Council Proposal =

== Question ==

Please note articles:

  7a, 9, 12, 13a, 13c, 14 and 4a)
 
Can somebody give explicit comments on this?

== Answer ==

=== Recital 7a: makes Art 52 meaningless ===

7a is a workaround around Art 52 EPC.

It implies that a patented object can never be a program for computers as 
such, because "program fc as such" only covers the expression side of a 
program, which nobody would want to patent anyway.  Thus recital 7a says 
that Art 52.2c is a dead piece of legal code that never meant anything 
anyway.  Which is of course wrong and legal nonsense.  See

	http://swpat.ffii.org/papers/epc52/

for more explanations as to what Art 52(2) means, how it has been 
interpreted and how it has been rendered void by interpretations such as 
the one that the Council patent lawyers now want to put into the law.

=== Recital 9: Suggests Idea Protection for Software ===

Recital 9 is the same.  It says that ideas are not "protected" by
copyright and thereby seems to imply that they can be "protected" by 
something else, i.e. patents.  Which is of course legally questionable, as 
Art 10 TRIPs says that "programs shall be protected as literary works", 
i.e. the scope of protection shall be roughly analogous to that of music, 
which is excluded from patentability by Art 52.2b and which also as an 
expression side and a process side, both of which are covered by 
copyright, as also in the case of programs.

=== Recital 12: Meaningless Violation of TRIPs ===

Recital 12 says that non-technical ideas can be patentable inventions but 
will (for some very unclear reason and in a very unclear way) be 
considered obvious ("lack an inventive step").  This mingling of the 
question of technicity with the question of obviousness is unlogical and 
unusual in the patent system.  It is a special rule, invented by the EPO 
for the sake of circumventing Art 52 EPC, and the result of this rule is 
that the EPO/CEC is advocating a "sui generis software patent law" (as 
pointed out by Prof. Bercowitz, one of the EP's counsellors on the matter) 
which is probably not allowed under Art 27 TRIPs.  

But since the TRIPs process at WTO seems currently dominated by patent
fetishists, this won't be pursued.  It may however be used to completely
throw out the concept of "technical" from the directive during
interpretation and I'm sure patent lawyers will use that aspect sooner or
later.  Therefore Recital 12 is and the like are there to create an 
ocean of interpretative freedom for the EPO (and to disadvantage national 
patent offices, which can never decide that any patent is non-technical, 
because they can only decide about technicity after a substantive patent 
examination, which they do not conduct).

=== Recital 13a: Pious Wish ===

Recital 13a is not bad but quite pliable and not very effective in the
context of this proposed directive.  The EPO can do whatever it wants and
still claim to be observing this recital.  It merely needs to say that a
technical contribution is present for other reasons than the "mere
implementation of an otherwise unpatentable method". E.g. the one-click
shopping method is not a "mere implementation of a (not
computer-imlemented) business method" but a way of reducing the number of 
needed mouseclicks.  It "solves a technical problem", and such a problem 
can usually be constructed.

=== Recital 13c: Wuermeling's Secret ===

Recital 13c is complete bogus, based on confusions in the mind of Joachim
Wuermeling, fodder for laughter by patent lawyers (see Basinski article on
FFII site), left in there by the working party only because it comes from
the European Parliament and doesn't mean anything.  This is the kind of 
amendments which CEC/Consilium most welcome from the Parliament. 

=== Recital 14: Pious Wish ===

Recital 14 is a pious wish.  The EPO has already drifted to the extreme of 
granting business method patents on a regular basis.  This EPO practise is 
confirmed by the proposed directive, and there is no reason to assume that 
the EPO would want to drift further.  Nor is there a reason to assume that 
the Council directive, whose language is much less clear than that of Art 
52 EPC, could prevent any drift, when even Art 52 EPC did not prevent the 
EPO from doing what it wanted to do.

Article 4a is also meaningless, because anything running on a computer can
be claimed to "produce a technical effect".

You can find more explanations of these fake limits of patentability on

 * http://swpat.ffii.org/papers/eubsa-swpat0202/juri0304/
 * http://swpat.ffii.org/papers/eubsa-swpat0202/plen0309/

The Council working party seems quite incapable of coming up with anything 
new.  That's also imho the reason why they simlpy discarded all the 
parliament's amendments.  They continue to hide behind the European Patent 
Office, and as soon as anyone starts some substantial debate, their card 
house will collapse.

You can find some info about the Council paper at

 * http://swpat.ffii.org/papers/europarl0309/cons0401/
 * http://swpat.ffii.org/papers/europarl0309/cons0401/tab/
 * http://swpat.ffii.org/papers/europarl0309/cec0311/
 * http://www.sopinspace.com/~aigrain/en/analysis-compromise.html

== Related Pages ==

 * Cons0401En
